Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 425
8.3.2
  Atomic Message Sequence Diagrams
8.3.2.1
  Introduction
The Policy Engine drives the Atomic Message Sequences (AMS) and responses based on both the expected AMSs and 
the present Local Policy. 
An AMS Shall be defined as a Message sequence that starts and/or ends in either the PE_SRC_Ready, 
PE_SNK_Ready or PE_CBL_Ready states (see Section 8.3.3.2, "Policy Engine Source Port State Diagram", Section 
8.3.3.3, "Policy Engine Sink Port State Diagram" and Section 8.3.3.25, "Cable Plug Specific State Diagrams"). 
In addition, the Cable Plug discovery sequence specified in Section 8.3.3.25.3, "Source Startup Structured VDM 
Discover Identity of a Cable Plug State Diagram" Shall be defined as an AMS.
The Source and Sink indicate to the Protocol Layer when an AMS starts and ends on entry to/exit from PE_SRC_Ready 
or PE_SNK_Ready (see Section 8.3.3.2, "Policy Engine Source Port State Diagram" and Section 8.3.3.3, "Policy Engine 
Sink Port State Diagram").
An AMS Shall be considered to have been started by the Initiator when the protocol engine signals the Policy Engine 
that transmission is a success (the GoodCRC Message has been received in response to the initial Message). For the 
receiving Port the AMS Shall be considered to have started when the initial Message has arrived.
An AMS Shall be considered to have ended:

When the Protocol Layer signals the Policy Engine that transmission of the final Message in the AMS is a 
success and for the opposite Port when the final Message has been received.

A Soft_Reset Message, Hard Reset Signaling for SOP’ or SOP’’ or Cable Reset Signaling has been sent or 
received.
Section 8.3.2.1.3, "Atomic Message Sequences" gives details of these AMS's.
This section contains sequence diagrams that highlight some of the more interesting transactions. It is by no means 
a complete summary of all possible combinations but is Informative in nature.
