Page 674
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Table 8.104, "Steps for a Source getting Sink Battery capabilities Sequence" below provides a detailed explanation of 
what happens at each labeled step in Figure 8.77, "Source Gets Sink's Battery Capabilities" above.
Table 8.104  Steps for a Source getting Sink Battery capabilities Sequence
Step
Source Port
Sink Port
1
The Port has Port Power Role set to Source and the Rp 
pull up on its CC wire.
Policy Engine directs the Protocol Layer to send a 
Get_Battery_Cap Message containing the number of the 
Battery for which capabilities are being requested.
The Port has Port Power Role set to Sink with the Rd pull 
down on its CC wire.
2
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
3
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the 
Get_Battery_Cap Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the Get_Battery_Cap Message and 
checks the CRC to verify the Message.
4
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the 
Get_Battery_Cap Message to the Protocol Layer.
5
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received 
Get_Battery_Cap Message information to the Policy 
Engine that consumes it.
6
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
7
PHY Layer receives the GoodCRC Message and checks 
the CRC to verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the GoodCRC 
Message.
8
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the 
GoodCRC Message to the Protocol Layer. 
9
Protocol Layer verifies and increments the 
MessageIDCounter and stops CRCReceiveTimer. 
Protocol Layer informs the Policy Engine that the 
Get_Battery_Cap Message was successfully sent. Policy 
Engine starts SenderResponseTimer.
10
Policy Engine requests the DPM for the present Source 
Battery capabilities, for the requested Battery number, 
which are provided. 
The Policy Engine tells the Protocol Layer to form a 
Battery_Capabilities Message.
11
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
12
PHY Layer receives the Message and compares the CRC 
it calculated with the one sent to verify the 
Battery_Capabilities Message.
PHY Layer appends a CRC and sends the 
Battery_Capabilities Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
13
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received 
Battery_Capabilities Message information to the 
Policy Engine that consumes it.
14
The Policy Engine stops the SenderResponseTimer.
15
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
