Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 271
If the Hard Reset is insufficient to clear the error condition, then the Port Shall use USB Type-C ErrorRecovery as 
defined in [USB Type-C 2.4].
A Sink Shall be able to send Hard Reset Signaling regardless of the value of Rp (see Section 5.7, "Collision 
Avoidance").
6.8.3.1
  Cable Plugs and Hard Reset
Cable Plugs Shall Not generate Hard Reset Signaling but Shall monitor for Hard Reset Signaling between the Port 
Partners and Shall reset when this is detected (see Section 8.3.3.25.2.2, "Cable Plug Hard Reset State Diagram"). The 
Cable Plugs Shall perform the equivalent of a power cycle returning to their initial power up state. This allows the 
Port Partners to be in a state where they can re-establish USB PD communication.
6.8.3.2
  Modal Operation and Hard Reset
A Hard Reset Shall cause EPR Mode and all Active Modes to be exited by both Port Partners and any Cable Plugs (see 
Section 6.4.4.3.4, "Enter Mode Command").
6.8.4
  Cable Reset
Cable Resets are signaled by an ordered set as defined in Section 5.6.5, "Cable Reset". Both the sender and recipient 
of Cable Reset Signaling Shall reset their respective Protocol Layers. The Cable Plugs Shall perform the equivalent 
of a power cycle returning to their initial power up state. This allows the Port Partners to be in a state where they 
can re-establish USB PD communication. 
The DFP must be supplying VCONN prior to a Cable Reset. If VCONN has been turned off the DFP Shall turn on VCONN 
prior to generating Cable Reset Signaling. If there has been a VCONN Swap and the UFP is currently supplying VCONN, 
the DFP Shall perform a VCONN Swap such that it is supplying VCONN prior to generating Cable Reset Signaling. 
Only a DFP Shall generate Cable Reset Signaling. A DFP Shall only generate Cable Reset Signaling within an 
Explicit Contract.
A Cable Reset Shall cause all Active Modes in the Cable Plugs to be exited (see Section 6.4.4.3.4, "Enter Mode 
Command").
