Page 42
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Chunked
See Chunking.
Chunked Extended Message
Extended Message which has been broken up into Chunks.
Chunking
The process of breaking up a Data Block larger than MaxExtendedMsgLegacyLen (26-bytes) 
into two or more Chunks.
Chunking Layer
Part of the Protocol Layer responsible for Chunking.
CL
See Current Limit.
Cold Socket
A Port that does not apply vSafe5V on VBUS until a Sink is Attached.
Collision Avoidance
Mechanisms to prevent simultaneous communication by the Source, Sink and Cable Plug on CC.
Command
Request and response pair defined as part of a Structured Vendor Defined Message (see Section 
6.4.4.2, "Structured VDM").
Configuration Channel
Single wire used by the BMC PHY Layer Signaling Scheme (see [USB Type-C 2.4]).
Connect
See Connected.
Connected
USB Power Delivery ports that have exchanged a Message and a GoodCRC Message response 
using the USB Power Delivery protocol so that both Port Partners know that each is PD Capable.
Constant Voltage
A constant voltage feature of an SPR PPS Source. The SPR PPS Source output voltage remains 
constant as the load changes up to its Current Limit.
Consumer
The capability of a PD Port (typically a Device's UFP) to sink power from the power conductor 
(e.g., VBUS). This corresponds to a USB Type-C Port with Rd asserted on its CC wire.
Consumer/Provider
A Consumer with the additional capability to function as a Provider. This corresponds to a Dual-
Role Power Port with Rd asserted on its CC wire.
Continuous BIST Mode
The BIST Mode where the Port or Cable Plug being tested sends a continuous stream of test data.
Contract
An agreement on both power level and direction is reached between a Port Pair. A Contract 
could be explicitly Negotiated between the Port Pair or could be an implicit power level defined 
by the current State. While operating in Power Delivery mode there will always be either an 
Explicit Contract or Implicit Contract in place. The Contract can only be altered in the case of a 
Negotiation/Re-negotiation, Power Role Swap,  Fast Role Swap, Hard Reset, Error Recovery or 
failure of the Source.
Control Message
A Control Message is defined as a Message with the Number of Data Objects field in the Message 
Header is set to zero. The Control Message consists only of a Message Header and a CRC.
CRC
CRC stands for Cyclic Redundancy Check. It is an error-detecting code used to determine if a 
block of data has been corrupted.
CT-VPD
See VCONN Powered USB Charge Through Device.
Current Limit
A current limiting feature of an SPR PPS Source. When a Sink operating in SPR PPS mode 
attempts to draw more current from the Source than the requested Current Limit value, the 
Source reduces its output voltage so the current it supplies remains at or below the requested 
value.
Note: Current Limit is not supported by SPR AVS and EPR AVS Sources.
CV
See Constant Voltage.
Data Block
An Extended Message Payload data unit. The size of each type of Data Block is specified as a series 
of bytes up to MaxExtendedMsgLen bytes in length. This is distinct from a Data Object used by 
a Data Message which is always a 32-bit object.
Data Message
A Data Message consists of a Message Header followed by one or more Data Objects. Data 
Messages are easily identifiable because the Number of Data Objects field in the Message 
Header is always a non-zero value.
Data Object
A Data Message Payload data unit. This 32-bit object contains information specific to different 
types of Data Message. For example Power, Request, BIST, and Vendor Data Objects are defined.
Data Reset
Process which resets USB Communication.
Data Role
A Port Partner will be in one of two Data Roles; either DFP (USB Host) or UFP (USB Device).
Data Role Swap
Process of exchanging the Data Roles between Port Partners.
Dead Battery
A device has a Dead Battery when the Battery in a device is unable to power its functions.
Table 1.4  Terms and Abbreviations (Continued)
Term
Description
