Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 755
Table 8.131, "Steps for Initiator to UFP Discover Identity (BUSY)" below provides a detailed explanation of what 
happens at each labeled step in Figure 8.104, "Initiator to Responder Discover Identity (BUSY)" above.
Table 8.131  Steps for Initiator to UFP Discover Identity (BUSY)
Step
Initiator
Responder
1
The Initiator has an Explicit Contract. The Policy 
Engine directs the Protocol Layer to send a Discover 
Identity Command request.
The Responder has an Explicit Contract.
2
Protocol Layer creates the Discover Identity Command 
request and passes to PHY Layer.
3
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the Discover 
Identity Command request. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the Discover Identity Command 
request and checks the CRC to verify the Message.
4
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the Discover 
Identity Command request to the Protocol Layer.
5
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received Discover 
Identity Command request information to the Policy 
Engine that consumes it.
6
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
7
PHY Layer receives the GoodCRC Message and checks 
the CRC to verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the GoodCRC 
Message.
8
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the GoodCRC 
Message to the Protocol Layer. 
9
Protocol Layer verifies and increments the 
MessageIDCounter and stops CRCReceiveTimer. 
Protocol Layer informs the Policy Engine that the 
Discover Identity Command request was successfully 
sent.
Policy Engine starts the VDMResponseTimer.
10
Policy Engine requests the identity information from 
the DPM. The Policy Engine tells the Protocol Layer to 
form a Discover Identity Command BUSY response.
11
Protocol Layer creates the Discover Identity Command 
BUSY response and passes to PHY Layer.
12
PHY Layer receives the Discover Identity Command 
BUSY response and compares the CRC it calculated with 
the one sent to verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends a CRC and sends the Discover 
Identity Command BUSY response. Starts 
CRCReceiveTimer.
13
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received Discover 
Identity Command BUSY response information to the 
Policy Engine that consumes it.
14
The Policy Engine stops the VDMResponseTimer and 
passed the Identity information to the DPM for 
evaluation.
15
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
