Page 66
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
2.6
  Architectural Overview
This logical architecture is not intended to be taken as an implementation architecture. An implementation 
architecture is, by definition, a part of product definition and is therefore outside of the scope of this specification.
This section outlines the high-level logical architecture of USB Power Delivery referenced throughout this 
specification. In practice various implementation options are possible based on many different possible types of 
PD devices. PD devices can have many different configurations e.g., USB Communication or non-USB 
Communication, single versus multiple Ports, dedicated power supplies versus supplies shared on multiple ports, 
hardware versus software-based implementations etc. The architecture outlined in this section is therefore 
provided only for reference to indicate the high-level logical model used by the PD specification. This architecture 
is used to identify the key concepts and to indicate logical blocks and possible links between them.
The USB Power Delivery is a Port to Port architecture in which each PD Capable device is made up of several major 
components.

Figure 2.3, "USB Power Delivery Communications Stack" illustrates the relationship of the layers of the 
communications stack between a Port Pair.
The communications stack consists of:

A Device Policy Manager (see Section 8.2, "Device Policy Manager") that exists in all devices and manages 
USB Power Delivery resources within the device across one or more Ports based on the device's Local 
Policy.

A Policy Engine (see Section 8.3, "Policy Engine") that exists in each USB Power Delivery Port 
implements the Local Policy for that Port.

A Protocol Layer (see Section 6, "Protocol Layer") that enables Messages to be exchanged between a Source 
Port and a Sink Port.

A PHY Layer (see Section 5, "Physical Layer") that handles transmission and reception of bits on the wire 
and handles data transmission
