Page 662
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Table 8.100, "Steps for a Dual-Role Source getting Dual-Role Sink Extended Capabilities Sequence" below provides a 
detailed explanation of what happens at each labeled step in Figure 8.73, "Dual-Role Source Gets Dual-Role Sink's 
Extended Capabilities" above.
Table 8.100  Steps for a Dual-Role Source getting Dual-Role Sink Extended Capabilities Sequence
Step
Dual-Role Source Port
Dual-Role Sink Port
1
The Port has Port Power Role set to Source and the Rp 
pull up on its CC wire.
Policy Engine directs the Protocol Layer to send a 
Get_Source_Cap_Extended Message.
The Port has Port Power Role set to Sink with the Rd pull 
down on its CC wire.
2
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
3
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the 
Get_Source_Cap_Extended Message. Starts 
CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the Get_Source_Cap_Extended 
Message and checks the CRC to verify the Message.
4
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the 
Get_Source_Cap_Extended Message to the Protocol 
Layer.
5
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received 
Get_Source_Cap_Extended Message information to the 
Policy Engine that consumes it.
6
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
7
PHY Layer receives the GoodCRC Message and checks 
the CRC to verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the GoodCRC 
Message.
8
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the 
GoodCRC Message to the Protocol Layer. 
9
Protocol Layer verifies and increments the 
MessageIDCounter and stops CRCReceiveTimer. 
Protocol Layer informs the Policy Engine that the 
Get_Source_Cap_Extended Message was successfully 
sent. Policy Engine starts SenderResponseTimer.
10
Policy Engine requests the DPM for the Extended 
Capabilities as a Source which are provided. 
The Policy Engine tells the Protocol Layer to form a 
Source_Capabilities_Extended Message.
11
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
12
PHY Layer receives the Message and compares the CRC 
it calculated with the one sent to verify the 
Source_Capabilities_Extended Message.
PHY Layer appends a CRC and sends the 
Source_Capabilities_Extended Message. Starts 
CRCReceiveTimer.
13
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received 
Source_Capabilities_Extended Message information to 
the Policy Engine that consumes it.
14
The Policy Engine stops the SenderResponseTimer.
