Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 481
Table 8.42, "Steps for a successful EPR Power Negotiation" below provides a detailed explanation of what happens 
at each labeled step in Figure 8.15, "Successful Fixed EPR Power Negotiation" above.
Table 8.42  Steps for a successful EPR Power Negotiation
Step
Source
Sink
1
The Cable Capabilities are detected if these are not 
already known (see Section 4.4, "Cable Type Detection"). 
Policy Engine directs the Protocol Layer to send a 
EPR_Source_Capabilities Message that represents the 
power supply’s present capabilities.
2
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
3
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the 
Source_Capabilities Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the EPR_Source_Capabilities 
Message and checks the CRC to verify the Message.
4
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the 
EPR_Source_Capabilities Message to the Protocol Layer.
5
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received 
EPR_Source_Capabilities Message information to the 
Policy Engine that consumes it.
6
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
7
PHY Layer receives the GoodCRC Message and checks 
the CRC to verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the GoodCRC 
Message.
8
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the GoodCRC 
Message to the Protocol Layer. 
9
Protocol Layer verifies and increments the 
MessageIDCounter and stops CRCReceiveTimer. 
Protocol Layer informs the Policy Engine that the 
EPR_Source_Capabilities Message was successfully 
sent. Policy Engine starts SenderResponseTimer.
10
Policy Engine evaluates the EPR_Source_Capabilities 
Message sent by the Source and selects which power it 
would like. It tells the Protocol Layer to form the data 
(e.g., Power Data Object) that represents its Request into 
a Message.
11
Protocol Layer creates the EPR_Request Message and 
passes to PHY Layer.
12
PHY Layer receives the EPR_Request Message and 
compares the CRC it calculated with the one sent to 
verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends a CRC and sends the EPR_Request 
Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
13
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the 
EPR_Request Message to the Protocol Layer. 
14
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer passes the Request information to 
the Policy Engine. Policy Engine stops 
SenderResponseTimer.
15
The Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it to its PHY Layer.
