Page 644
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Table 8.94, "Steps for a Dual-Role Sink getting Dual-Role Source capabilities as a Sink Sequence" below provides a 
detailed explanation of what happens at each labeled step in Figure 8.67, "Dual-Role Sink Gets Dual-Role Source's 
Capabilities as a Sink" above.
Table 8.94  Steps for a Dual-Role Sink getting Dual-Role Source capabilities as a Sink Sequence
Step
Dual-Role Sink Port
Dual-Role Source Port
1
The Port has Port Power Role set to Dual-Role Power 
Sink with the Rd pull down on its CC wire.
Policy Engine directs the Protocol Layer to send a 
Get_Sink_Cap Message.
The Port has Port Power Role set to Dual-Role Power 
Source and the Rp pull up on its CC wire.
2
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
3
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the Get_Sink_Cap 
Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the Get_Sink_Cap Message and 
checks the CRC to verify the Message.
4
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the 
Get_Sink_Cap Message to the Protocol Layer.
5
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received Get_Sink_Cap 
Message information to the Policy Engine that 
consumes it.
6
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
7
PHY Layer receives the GoodCRC Message and checks 
the CRC to verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the GoodCRC 
Message.
8
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the GoodCRC 
Message to the Protocol Layer. 
9
Protocol Layer verifies and increments the 
MessageIDCounter and stops CRCReceiveTimer. 
Protocol Layer informs the Policy Engine that the 
Get_Sink_Cap Message was successfully sent. Policy 
Engine starts SenderResponseTimer.
10
Policy Engine requests the DPM for the present Dual-
Role Power Source Capabilities which are provided. 
The Policy Engine tells the Protocol Layer to form a 
Sink_Capabilities Message.
11
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
12
PHY Layer receives the Message and compares the CRC 
it calculated with the one sent to verify the 
Sink_Capabilities Message.
PHY Layer appends a CRC and sends the 
Sink_Capabilities Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
13
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received 
Sink_Capabilities Message information to the Policy 
Engine that consumes it.
14
The Policy Engine stops the SenderResponseTimer.
15
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
