Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 233
6.5.8
  Security Messages
The authentication process between Port Partners or a Port and Cable Plug is fully described in 
[USBTypeCAuthentication 1.0]. This specification describes two Extended Messages used by the authentication 
process when applied to PD.
 In the authentication process described in [USBTypeCAuthentication 1.0] there are three basic exchanges that 
serve to:

Get the Port or Cable Plug's certificates.

Get the Port or Cable Plug's digest.

Challenge the Port Partner or Cable Plug.
Certificates are used to convey information, attested to by a signer, which attests to the Port Partner's or Cable 
Plug's authenticity. The Port's or Cable Plug's certificates are needed when a Port encounters a Port Partner or 
Cable Plug it has not been Attached to before. To minimize calculations after the initial Attachment, a Port can also 
use a digest consisting of hashes of the certificates rather than the certificates themselves. Once the Port has the 
certificates and has calculated the hashes, it stores the hashes and uses the digest in future exchanges. After the 
Port gets the certificates or digest, it challenges its Port Partner or the Cable Plug to detect replay attacks. 
 For further details refer to [USBTypeCAuthentication 1.0]. 
6.5.8.1
  Security_Request
The Security_Request Message is used by a Port to pass a security data structure to its Port Partner or a Cable Plug.
The Security_Request Message contains a Security Request Data Block (SRQDB) whose format Shall be as shown 
in Figure 6.45, "Security_Request Message". The contents of the SRQDB and its use are defined in 
[USBTypeCAuthentication 1.0].
Figure 6.45 Security_Request Message
6.5.8.2
  Security_Response
The Security_Response Message is used by a Port or Cable Plug to pass a security data structure to the Port that 
sent the Security_Request Message.
The Security_Response Message contains a Security Response Data Block (SRPDB) whose format Shall be as 
shown in Figure 6.46, "Security_Response Message". The contents of the SRPDB and its use are defined in 
[USBTypeCAuthentication 1.0].
Figure 6.46 Security_Response Message
Extended Header
Data Size = 4..260
SRQDB
Extended Header
Data Size = 4..260
SRPDB
