Page 50
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
SPR Source Port
A Port exposed on an SPR Source.
Standard ID
16-bit unsigned value assigned by the USB-IF to a given industry standards organization’s 
specification.
Standard or Vendor ID
Generic term referring to either a VID or a SID. SVID is used in place of the phrase “Standard or 
Vendor ID.”
Standard Power Range
Only the Source_Capabilities and the Request Messages are allowed to Negotiate SPR Explicit 
Contracts. The EPR Messages (the EPR_Source_Capabilities Message and the EPR_Request 
Message) are not allowed to be used while in SPR Mode.
Start of Packet
K-code marker used to delineate the start of a Packet. 
State
PD state machine state as defined in Section 6.12, "State behavior" and Section 8.3.3, "State 
Diagrams" state machines.
Structured VDM
See Structured Vendor Defined Message.
Structured VDM Header
The VDM Header for a Structured Vendor Defined Message. 
Structured Vendor Defined 
Message
A Vendor Defined Message where the contents and usage of bits 14...0 of the VDM Header are 
defined by this specification.
SVDM
See Structured Vendor Defined Message.
SVID
See Standard or Vendor ID.
Swap Standby
During Swap Standby the Source does not drive VBUS and the Sink's current draw does not 
exceed iSnkSwapStdby.
System Policy
Overall system Policy generated by the system, broken up into the policies required by each Port 
Pair to affect the System Policy. It is programmatically fed to the individual devices for 
consumption by their Policy Engines.
System Policy Manager
Module running on the USB Host. It applies the System Policy through communication with PD 
Capable Consumers and Providers that are also connected to the USB Host via USB.
Test Frame
Frame consisting of a Preamble, SOP*, followed by test data (See Section 5.9, "Built in Self-Test 
(BIST)").
Test Pattern
Continuous stream of test data in a given sequence (See Section 5.9, "Built in Self-Test (BIST)"). 
Tester
The Tester is assumed to be a piece of test equipment that manages the BIST testing process of 
a PD UUT.
UFP
See Upstream Facing Port.
UFP VDO
VDO returned by the UFP containing Capabilities.
UI
See Unit Interval.
Unchunked
See Unchunked Extended Message.
Unchunked Extended 
Message
Extended Message that has been transmitted whole without using Chunking.
Unexpected Message
Message that a Port supports but has been received in an incorrect State.
Unit Interval
The time to transmit a single data bit on the wire.
Unit Under Test
The PD device that is being tested by the Tester and responds to the initiation of a particular BIST 
test sequence.
Unrecognized Message
Message that a Port does not understand e.g., a Message using a Reserved Message type, a 
Message defined by a higher specification Revision than the Revision this Port supports, or an 
Unstructured Vendor Defined Message for which the VID is not recognized.
Unstructured VDM
See Unstructured Vendor Defined Message.
Unstructured VDM Header
The VDM Header for an Unstructured Vendor Defined Message. 
Unstructured Vendor 
Defined Message
A Vendor Defined Message where the contents of bits 14...0 of the VDM Header are undefined.
Unsupported Message
Message that a Port recognizes but does not support. This is a Message defined by the 
specification, but which is not supported by this Port.
Table 1.4  Terms and Abbreviations (Continued)
Term
Description
