Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 139
6.4.1
  Capabilities Message
There are two distinct Capabilities Messages: one used while in SPR Mode and another while in EPR Mode. This 
section defines the Capabilities Messages specific to the SPR Mode and Section 6.5.15, "EPR Capabilities Message" 
defines the Capabilities Messages specific to the EPR Mode.
6.4.1.1
  Power Data Objects
Sections Section 6.4.1.5, "SPR Source Capabilities Message" and Section 7.1.3, "Types of Sources" describes the Power 
Data Objects (PDOs) used in the construction of a Capabilities Message for both SPR Mode and EPR Mode.
There are three types of Power Data Objects. They contain additional information beyond that encoded in the 
Message Header to identify each of the three types of Power Data Objects:

Fixed Supply is used to expose well-regulated fixed voltage power supplies.

Variable Supply is used to expose very poorly regulated power supplies. 

Battery Supply is used to expose batteries that can be directly connected to VBUS.
There are three types of Augmented Power Data Objects:

SPR PPS is used to expose a power supply whose output voltage can be programmatically adjusted over 
the Advertised voltage range and limited by the Source to a programmable current limit.

SPR AVS and EPR AVS are used to expose a power supply whose output voltage can be adjusted over the 
Advertised voltage range but otherwise is equivalent to a Fixed Supply (AVS does not support a 
programmable current limit).
Power Data Objects are also used to expose additional Capabilities that May be utilized, such as in the case of a 
Power Role Swap.
A list of one or more Power Data Objects Shall be sent by the Source to convey its Capabilities. The Sink May then 
request one of these Capabilities by returning a Request Data Object that contains an index to a Power Data Object, 
to Negotiate a mutually agreeable Explicit Contract.
Where Maximum and Minimum voltage and current values are given in PDOs these Shall be taken to be absolute 
values.
The Source and Sink Shall Not Negotiate a power level that would allow the current to exceed the maximum current 
supported by their receptacles or the Attached plug (see [USB Type-C 2.4]). The Source Shall limit its offered 
Capabilities to the maximum current supported by its receptacle and Attached plug. A Sink Shall only make a 
request from any of the Capabilities offered by the Source. For further details see Section 4.4, "Cable Type Detection".
Sources expose their power Capabilities by sending a Source_Capabilities Message. Sinks expose their power 
requirements by sending a Sink_Capabilities Message. Both are composed of several 32-bit Power Data Objects 
(see Table 6.7, "Power Data Object").
Table 6.7  Power Data Object
Bit(s)
Description
Value
Parameter
B31…30
00b
Fixed Supply (Vmin = Vmax)
01b
Battery
10b
Variable Supply (non-Battery)
11b
Augmented Power Data Object (APDO)
B29…0
Specific Power Capabilities are described by the PDOs in the following sections.
