Page 994
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
9.4.2.2
  CHARGING_POLICY Feature Selector
When the feature selector is set to CHARGING_POLICY, the wIndex field Shall be set to one of the values defined in 
Table 9.13, "Charging Policy Encoding". If the device is using USB Type-C Current above the default value or is using 
PD then this feature setting has no effect and the rules for power levels specified in the [USB Type-C 2.4] or USB 
PD specifications Shall apply.
This is a Valid Command for the PDUSB Hub/Peripheral in the Address or Configured USB states. Further, it is only 
Valid if the device reports a USB PD capability descriptor in its BOS descriptor and Bit 5 of the bmAttributes in that 
descriptor is set to 1. The device will go back to the wIndex default value of 0 whenever it is reset.
Table 9.13  Charging Policy Encoding
Value
Description
00H
The device Shall follow the default current limits as defined in the USB 2.0 or USB 3.1 specification, or 
as negotiated through other USB mechanisms such as BC. 
This is the default value.
01H
The Device May draw additional power during the unconfigured and suspend states for the purposes 
of charging.
For charging the device itself, the device Shall limit its current draw to the higher of these two values:
ICCHPF as defined in the USB 2.0 or USB 3.1 specification, regardless of its USB state.
Current limit as negotiated through other USB mechanisms such as BC.
02H
The Device May draw additional power during the unconfigured and suspend states for the purposes 
of charging.
For charging the device itself, the device Shall limit its current draw to the higher of these two values:
ICCLPF as defined in the USB 2.0 or USB 3.1 specification, regardless of its USB state.
Current limit as negotiated through other USB mechanisms such as BC.
03H
The device Shall Not consume any current for charging the device itself regardless of its USB state.
04H-FFFFH
Reserved and Shall Not be used
