Page 328
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
7.1.9
  Charging and Discharging the Bulk Capacitance on VBUS
The Source Shall charge and discharge the bulk capacitance on VBUS whenever the Source voltage is Negotiated to 
a different value. The charging or discharging occurs during the voltage transition and Shall Not interfere with the 
Source's ability to meet tSrcReady.
7.1.10
  Swap Standby for Sources
Sources and Sinks of a Dual-Role Power Port Shall support Swap Standby. Swap Standby occurs for the Source after 
the Source power supply has discharged the bulk capacitance on VBUS to vSafe0V as part of the Power Role Swap 
transition.
While in Swap Standby:

The Source Shall Not drive VBUS that is therefore expected to remain at vSafe0V.

Any discharge circuitry that was used to achieve vSafe0V Shall be removed from VBUS.

The Dual-Role Power Port Shall be configured as a Sink.

The USB connection Shall Not reset even though vSafe5V is no longer present on VBUS (see Section 9.1.2, 
"Mapping to USB Device States").
The PS_RDY Message associated with the Source being in Swap Standby Shall be sent after the VBUS drive is 
removed. The time for the Source to transition to Swap Standby Shall Not exceed tSrcSwapStdby. Upon entering 
Swap Standby, the Source has relinquished its Power Role as Source and is ready to become the New Sink. The 
transition time from Swap Standby to being the New Sink Shall be no more than tNewSnk. The New Sink May start 
using power after the new Source sends the PS_RDY Message.
7.1.11
  Source Peak Current Operation
A Source that has the Fixed Supply PDO or AVS APDO Peak Current bits set to 01b, 10b and 11b Shall be designed 
to support one of the overload Capabilities defined in Table 6.10, "Fixed Power Source Peak Current Capability" or 
Table 6.16, "EPR AVS Power Source Peak Current Capability" respectively. The overload conditions are bound in 
magnitude, duration and duty cycle as listed in Table 6.10, "Fixed Power Source Peak Current Capability" or 
Table 6.16, "EPR AVS Power Source Peak Current Capability". Sources are not required to support continuous 
overload operation. When overload conditions occur, the Source is allowed the range of vSrcPeak (instead of 
vSrcNew) relative to the nominal value (see Figure 7.14, "Source Peak Current Overload"). When the overload 
capability is exceeded, the Source is expected take whatever action is necessary to prevent electrical or thermal 
damage to the Source. The Source May send a new Source_Capabilities Message with the Fixed Supply PDO or AVS 
APDO Peak Current bits set to 00b to prohibit overload operation even if an overload capability was previously 
Negotiated with the Sink.
