Page 468
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Table 8.38, "Steps for SPR Sink Makes Request (Wait)" below provides a detailed explanation of what happens at 
each labeled step in Figure 8.11, "SPR Sink Makes Request (Wait)" above.
Table 8.38  Steps for SPR Sink Makes Request (Wait)
Step
Source
Sink
1
DPM tells the Policy Engine to request a different 
power level. The Policy Engine tells the Protocol Layer 
to form a Request Message.
The Protocol Layer creates the Request Message and 
passes it to PHY Layer.
2
PHY Layer receives the Request Message and compares 
the CRC it calculated with the one sent to verify the 
Message.
PHY Layer appends a CRC and sends the Request 
Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
3
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the Request 
Message to the Protocol Layer. 
4
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer passes the Request information to 
the Policy Engine.
5
The Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it to its PHY Layer.
6
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the GoodCRC 
Message.
PHY Layer receives the GoodCRC Message and 
compares the CRC it calculated with the one sent to verify 
the Message.
7
PHY Layer forwards the GoodCRC Message to the 
Protocol Layer. 
8
The Protocol Layer verifies and increments the 
MessageIDCounter. It informs the Policy Engine that 
the Request Message was successfully sent. The Protocol 
Layer stops the CRCReceiveTimer.
The Policy Engine starts SenderResponseTimer. 
9
Policy Engine requests the DPM to evaluate the 
Request Message sent by the Sink and decides if the 
Source can meet the request. The Policy Engine tells 
the Protocol Layer to form a Wait Message. 
10
The Protocol Layer forms the Wait Message that is 
passed to the PHY Layer.
11
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the Wait Message. 
Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the Wait Message and compares 
the CRC it calculated with the one sent to verify the 
Message.
12
PHY Layer forwards the Wait Message to the Protocol 
Layer.
13
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
Protocol Layer informs the Policy Engine that an Wait 
Message has been received. The Policy Engine informs 
the DPM that the Request has been rejected.
14
The Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it to its PHY Layer.
