Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 57
2.4
  SOP* Communication
2.4.1
  Introduction
The Start of Packet (or SOP) is used as an addressing scheme to identify whether the communications were 
intended for one of the Port Partners (SOP Communication) or one of the Cable Plugs (SOP’ Communication/SOP’’ 
Communication). SOP/SOP’ and SOP’’ are collectively referred to as SOP*. All SOP* Communications take place over 
a single wire (CC). The term Cable Plug in the SOP’ Communication/SOP’’ Communication case is used to represent 
a logical entity in the cable which is capable of PD Communication, and which might or might not be physically 
located in the plug.
Note:
There are there are other SOPs defined for special operation such as debug which are not discussed here.
The following sections describe how this addressing scheme operates for Port-to-Port and Port to Cable Plug 
communication.
2.4.2
  SOP* Collision Avoidance
For all SOP* the Source co-ordinates communication to avoid bus collisions by allowing the Sink to initiate 
messaging when it does not need to communicate itself. Once an Explicit Contract is in place, the Source 
manipulates its Rp value (3A) to indicate to the Sink that it can initiate an Atomic Message Sequence (AMS). This AMS 
can be communication with the Source or with one of the Cable Plugs. As soon as the Source itself needs to initiate 
an AMS, it will manipulate its Rp value (1.5A) to indicate this to the Sink. The Source then waits for any outstanding 
Sink SOP* Communication to complete before initiating an AMS itself. In all cases, the Port initiating an AMS waits 
for CC to be Idle before putting the Message on CC.
2.4.3
  SOP Communication
SOP Communication is used for Port-to-Port communication between the Source and the Sink. SOP Communication 
is recognized by both Port Partners but not by any intervening Cable Plugs. SOP Communication takes priority over 
other SOP* Communications since it is critical to complete power related operations as soon as possible.
2.4.4
  SOP'/SOP'' Communication with Cable Plugs
SOP’ Communication is recognized by electronics in one Cable Plug (see [USB Type-C 2.4]). SOP’’ Communication 
can also be supported when SOP’ Communication is also supported. SOP’ and SOP’’ assignment in the cable 
assembly is fixed and does not change dynamically.
SOP Communication between the Port Partners is not recognized by the Cable Plug. Figure 2.2, "Example SOP' 
Communication between VCONN Source and Cable Plug(s)" outlines the usage of SOP* Communications between a 
VCONN Source (DFP/UFP) and the Cable Plugs.
Since all SOP* Communications take place over a single wire (CC), the SOP* Communication periods must be 
coordinated to prevent important communication from being blocked. For a product which does not recognize 
SOP/SOP’ or SOP’’ Packets, this will look like a non-Idle channel, leading to missed Packets and retries. 
Communications between the Port Partners take precedence meaning that communications with the Cable Plug 
can be interrupted but will not lead to a Soft Reset or Hard Reset.
When a Default Contract or Implicit Contract is in place (e.g., at startup, after a Power Role Swap or Fast Role Swap) 
only the Source Port that is supplying VCONN is allowed to send Packets to a Cable Plug (SOP’) and is allowed to 
respond to Packets from the Cable Plug (SOP’) with a GoodCRC Message in order to discover the Cable Plug's 
characteristics (see Figure 2.2, "Example SOP' Communication between VCONN Source and Cable Plug(s)"). During 
this phase, all communication with the Cable Plug is initiated and controlled by the VCONN Source which acts to 
prevent conflicts between SOP Packets and SOP’ Packets. The Sink does not communicate with the Cable Plug and 
Discards any SOP’ Packets received.
When an Explicit Contract is in place, only the VCONN Source (either the DFP or the UFP) can communicate with the 
Cable Plug(s) using SOP’ Packets/SOP’’ Packets (see Figure 2.2, "Example SOP' Communication between VCONN 
Source and Cable Plug(s)"). During this phase, all communication with the Cable Plug is initiated and controlled by 
the VCONN Source which acts to prevent conflicts between SOP* Packets. The Port that is not the VCONN Source is not 
