Page 322
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
7.1.4.3.2
  Adjustable Voltage Supply Current 
The AVS Shall maintain its output voltage at the value requested in the AVS RDO for all static and dynamic load 
conditions that do not exceed the Operating Current in the RDO. Unlike the SPR PPS programmable current, the AVS 
programmable power May range from zero to the PDP.
The maximum operating current:

For SPR Sources, the maximum operating current is defined in the SPR Source_Capabilities Message 
Maximum Current 15V/Maximum Current 20V fields.

For EPR Sources, the maximum operating current has to be calculated as the lower of the PDP field 
value/Output Voltage or 5A whichever is lower. See Table 10.12, "EPR Source Capabilities based on the 
Port Maximum PDP and using an EPR Capable Cable"
7.1.5
  Response to Hard Resets
Hard Reset Signaling indicates a communication failure has occurred and the Source Shall stop driving VCONN, 
Shall remove Rp from the VCONN pin and Shall drive VBUS to vSafe0V as shown in Figure 7.10, "Source VBUS and 
VCONN Response to Hard Reset". The USB connection May reset during a Hard Reset since the VBUS voltage will be 
less than vSafe5V for an extended period of time. After establishing the vSafe0V voltage condition on VBUS, the 
Source Shall wait tSrcRecover before re-applying VCONN and restoring VBUS to vSafe5V. A Source Shall conform to 
the VCONN timing as specified in [USB Type-C 2.4].
A Sink that enters Hard Reset can have cSnkBulkPd present until VBUS drops below vSafe0V. The Source Shall take 
this into consideration.
Device operation during and after a Hard Reset is defined as follows:

Self-powered devices Should Not disconnect from USB during a Hard Reset (see Section 9.1.2, "Mapping 
to USB Device States").

Self-powered devices operating at more than vSafe5V May Not maintain full functionality after a Hard 
Reset.

Bus powered devices will disconnect from USB during a Hard Reset due to the loss of their power 
source.
When a Hard Reset occurs the Source Shall stop driving VCONN, Shall remove Rp from the VCONN pin and Shall start 
to transition the VBUS voltage to vSafe0V either:

tPSHardReset after the last bit of the Hard Reset Signaling has been received from the Sink or 

tPSHardReset after the last bit of the Hard Reset Signaling has been sent by the Source.
The Source Shall meet both tSafe5V and tSafe0V relative to the start of the voltage transition as shown in Figure 
7.10, "Source VBUS and VCONN Response to Hard Reset".
