Page 166
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
6.4.4.2.4
  Object Position
The Object Position field Shall be used by the Enter Mode and Exit Mode Commands. The Discover Modes 
Command returns a list of zero to six VDOs, each of which describes an Alternate Mode. The value in Object Position 
field is an index into that list that indicates which VDO (e.g., Alternate Mode) in the list the Enter Mode and Exit 
Mode Command refers to. The Object Position Shall start with one for the first Alternate Mode in the list. If the SVID 
is a VID, the content of the VDO for the Alternate Mode Shall be defined by the vendor. If the Standard or Vendor 
ID (SVID) is a SID, the value Shall be assigned, by the USB-IF, to the given Standard. The VDO's content May be as 
simple as a numeric value or as complex as bit mapped description of Capabilities of the Alternate Mode. In all cases, 
the Responder is responsible for deciphering the contents to know whether or not it supports the Alternate Mode 
at the Object Position.
This field Shall be set to zero in the Request or Response (REQ, ACK, NAK or BUSY) when not required by the 
specification of the individual Command.
6.4.4.2.5
  Command Type
6.4.4.2.5.1
  Commands other than Attention
This Command Type field Shall be used to indicate the type of Command request/response being sent.
An Initiator Shall set the Command Type field to REQ to indicate that this is a Command request from an Initiator.
If Structured VDMs are supported, then the responses are as follows:

"Responder ACK" is the normal return and Shall be sent to indicate that the Command request was 
received and handled normally. 

"Responder NAK" Shall be returned when the Command request:

Has an Invalid parameter (e.g., Invalid SVID or Alternate Mode).

Cannot be acted upon because the configuration is not correct (e.g., an Alternate Mode which has a 
dependency on another Alternate Mode or a request to exit an Alternate Mode which is not anActive 
Mode).

Is an Unrecognized Message.

The handling of "Responder NAK" is left up to the Initiator.

"Responder BUSY" Shall be sent in the response to a VDM when the Responder is unable to respond to 
the Command request immediately, but the Command request May be retried. The Initiator Shall wait 
tVDMBusy after a "Responder BUSY" response is received before retrying the Command request.
6.4.4.2.5.2
  Attention Command
This Command Type field Shall be used to indicate the type of Command request being sent. An Initiator Shall set 
the field to REQ to indicate that this is a Command request from an Initiator. If Structured VDMs are supported, then 
no response Shall be made to an Attention Command.
6.4.4.2.6
  Command
6.4.4.2.6.1
  Commands other than Attention
The Command field contains the value for the VDM Command being sent. The Commands explicitly listed in the 
Command field are used to identify devices and manage their operational Modes. There is a further range of 
Command values left for the vendor to use to manage additional extensions.
A Structured VDM Command consists of a Command request and a Command response (ACK, NAK or BUSY). A 
Structured VDM Command is deemed to be completed (and if applicable, the transition to the requested 
functionality is made) when the GoodCRC Message has been successfully received by the Responder in reply to its 
Command response.
