Page 122
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
6.2.1.2.4
  Data Size
The Data Size field Shall indicate how many bytes of data in total are in Data Block being returned. The total 
number of data bytes in the Message Shall Not exceed MaxExtendedMsgLen.
If the Data Size field is less than MaxExtendedMsgLegacyLen and the Chunked bit is set then the Packet Payload 
Shall be padded to the next 4-byte Data Object boundary with zeros (0x00). 
If the Data Size field is greater than expected for a given Extended Message but less than or equal to 
MaxExtendedMsgLen then the expected fields in the Message Shall be processed appropriately and the additional 
fields Shall be Ignored.
6.2.1.2.5
  Extended Message Examples
The following examples illustrate the transmission of Extended Messages both Chunked (Chunked bit is one) and 
Unchunked (Chunked bit is zero). The examples use a Security_Request Message of Data Size 7 bytes which is 
responded to by a Security_Response Message of Data Size 30 bytes. The sizes of these Messages are arbitrary and 
are used to illustrate Message transmission; they are not intended to correspond to genuine security related 
Messages.
During Negotiation of the Explicit Contract after connection, the Port Partners use the Unchunked Extended 
Messages Supported field in the Source_Capabilities Message and Unchunked Extended Messages Supported 
field in the Request Message to determine the value of the Chunked bit (see Table 6.4, "Use of Unchunked Message 
Supported bit"). When both Port Partners support Unchunked Extended Messages then the Chunked bit is zero 
otherwise the Chunked bit is one.
The Chunked bit is used to determine whether:

The Chunk request/response mechanism is used.

Extended Messages are Chunked.

Padding is applied.

The Number of Data Objects field is used.
The following examples illustrate the expected usage in each case.
6.2.1.2.5.1
  Security_Request/Security_Response Unchunked Example
Figure 6.4, "Example Security_Request sequence Unchunked (Chunked bit = 0)" illustrates a typical sequence for a 
Security_Request Message responded to by a Security_Response Message using Unchunked Extended Messages 
(Chunked bit is zero) between a USB Host and a Charger. The entire Data Block is returned in one Message. The 
Chunk request/response mechanism is not used.
Table 6.4  Use of Unchunked Message Supported bit
Source: Source_Capabilities Message
 Unchunked Message 
Supported bit = 0
Unchunked Message 
Supported bit = 1
Sink: Request Message
Unchunked Message 
Supported bit = 0
Chunked bit = 1
Chunked bit = 1
Unchunked Message 
Supported bit = 1
Chunked bit = 1
Chunked bit = 0
