Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 453
Table 8.33, "Steps for a rejected Power Negotiation" below provides a detailed explanation of what happens at each 
labeled step in Figure 8.6, "Rejected Fixed, Variable or Battery SPR Power Negotiation" above.
Table 8.33  Steps for a rejected Power Negotiation
Step
Source
Sink
1
The Cable Capabilities or Plug Type are detected if these 
are not already known (see Section 4.4, "Cable Type 
Detection"). Policy Engine directs the Protocol Layer to 
send a Source_Capabilities Message that represents the 
power supply’s present capabilities.
2
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
3
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the 
Source_Capabilities Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the Source_Capabilities Message 
and checks the CRC to verify the Message.
4
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the 
Source_Capabilities Message to the Protocol Layer.
5
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received 
Source_Capabilities Message information to the Policy 
Engine that consumes it.
6
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
7
PHY Layer receives the GoodCRC Message and checks 
the CRC to verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the GoodCRC 
Message.
8
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the GoodCRC 
Message to the Protocol Layer. 
9
Protocol Layer verifies and increments the 
MessageIDCounter and stops CRCReceiveTimer. 
Protocol Layer informs the Policy Engine that the 
Source_Capabilities Message was successfully sent. 
Policy Engine starts SenderResponseTimer.
10
Policy Engine evaluates the Source_Capabilities 
Message sent by the Source, detects the plug type if this is 
necessary (see Section 4.4, "Cable Type Detection") and 
selects which power it would like. It tells the Protocol 
Layer to form the data (e.g., Power Data Object) that 
represents its Request into a Message.
11
Protocol Layer creates the Request Message and passes 
to PHY Layer.
12
PHY Layer receives the Request Message and compares 
the CRC it calculated with the one sent to verify the 
Message.
PHY Layer appends a CRC and sends the Request 
Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
13
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the Request 
Message to the Protocol Layer. 
14
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer passes the Request information to 
the Policy Engine. Policy Engine stops 
SenderResponseTimer.
