Page 782
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Table 8.140, "Steps for DFP to Cable Plug Enter Mode" below provides a detailed explanation of what happens at 
each labeled step in Figure 8.113, "DFP to Cable Plug Enter Mode" above.
Table 8.140  Steps for DFP to Cable Plug Enter Mode
Step
DFP
Cable Plug
1
The DFP has an Explicit Contract 
The DFP has discovered the supported SVIDS using the 
Discover SVIDs Command request and the supported 
Modes using the Discover Modes Command request
The DFP goes to USB Safe State. The DPM requests the 
Policy Engine to enter a Mode.
tCableMessage after the last GoodCRC Message was 
sent the Policy Engine directs the Protocol Layer to 
send an Enter Mode Command request.
2
Protocol Layer creates the Enter Mode Command 
request and passes to PHY Layer.
3
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the Enter Mode 
Command request. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the Enter Mode Command request 
and checks the CRC to verify the Message.
4
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the Enter 
Mode Command request to the Protocol Layer.
5
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received Enter Mode 
Command request information to the Policy Engine that 
consumes it.
6
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
7
PHY Layer receives the GoodCRC Message and checks 
the CRC to verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the GoodCRC 
Message.
8
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the GoodCRC 
Message to the Protocol Layer. 
9
Protocol Layer verifies and increments the 
MessageIDCounter and stops CRCReceiveTimer. 
Protocol Layer informs the Policy Engine that the 
Enter Mode Command request was successfully sent.
Policy Engine starts the VDMModeEntryTimer.
10
Policy Engine requests the DPM to enter the new 
Mode. tCableMessage after the GoodCRC Message was 
sent the Policy Engine tells the Protocol Layer to form 
an Enter Mode Command ACK response.
11
Protocol Layer creates the Enter Mode Command ACK 
response and passes to PHY Layer.
12
PHY Layer receives the Enter Mode Command ACK 
response and compares the CRC it calculated with the 
one sent to verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends a CRC and sends the Enter Mode 
Command ACK response. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
13
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received Enter Mode 
Command ACK response information to the Policy 
Engine that consumes it.
