Page 174
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
The bits in the bit-field Shall be non-zero when the corresponding USB Device speed is supported and Shall be set 
to zero when the corresponding USB Device speed is not supported.
[USB 2.0] "Device capable" and "Device capable Billboard only" (bits 0 and 1) Shall Not be simultaneously set.
6.4.4.3.1.4.3
  Connector Type Field
Th Connector Type (Legacy) field was previously used for the UFP VDO's Connector Type. Shall be set to 00b by 
the Cable Plug and Shall be Ignored by the receiver. The receiver can find this information in the Connector Type 
field in the ID Header VDO (Section 6.4.4.3.1.1.7, "Connector Type Field").
6.4.4.3.1.4.4
  VCONN Power Field
When the VCONN Required field indicates that VCONN is required the VCONN Power field Shall indicate how much 
power an AMA needs in order to fully operate. When the VCONN Required field is set to "No" the VCONN Power field 
is Reserved and Shall be set to zero.
6.4.4.3.1.4.5
  VCONN Required Field
The VCONN Required field Shall indicate whether VCONN is needed for the AMA to operate. The VCONN Required field 
Shall only be used if the Alternate Modes field indicates that an Alternate Mode is supported. If no Alternate Modes 
are supported, this field is Reserved and Shall be set to zero.
6.4.4.3.1.4.6
  VBUS Required Field
The VBUS Required field Shall indicate whether VBUS is needed for the AMA to operate. The VBUS required field 
Shall only be used if the Alternate Modes field indicates that an Alternate Mode is supported. If no Alternate Modes 
are supported, this field is Reserved and Shall be set to zero.
6.4.4.3.1.4.7
  Alternate Modes Field
The Alternate Modes field Shall be used to identify all the types of Alternate Modes, if any, a device supports.
6.4.4.3.1.4.8
  USB Highest Speed Field
The USB Highest Speed field Shall indicate the Port's highest speed capability. The DFP Shall consider all values 
indicated in this field that are higher than the highest value that the DFP recognizes as being Valid and functionally 
compatible with the highest speed that the DFP supports.
