Page 338
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
7.2.9.3
  Over Temperature Protection
Sinks Shall implement over temperature protection (OTP) to prevent damage from temperature that exceeds the 
thermal capability of the Sink. The definition of thermal capability and the monitoring locations used to trigger the 
over temperature protection are left to the discretion of the Sink implementation. 
Sinks Shall attempt to send Hard Reset Signaling when over temperature protection engages followed by an Alert 
Message indicating an OTP event once an Explicit Contract has been established. The over temperature protection 
response May engage at either the Port or system level. Systems or ports that have engaged over temperature 
protection Should attempt to resume USB Default Operation after sufficient cooling is achieved and May latch off 
to protect the Port or system. The definition of sufficient cooling is left to the discretion of the Sink implementation.
The Sink Shall be able to Re-negotiate with the Source after resuming USB Default Operation. The decision of how 
to respond to Re-negotiation after an over temperature event is left to the discretion of the Sink implementation.
The Sink Shall prevent continual system or Port cycling if over temperature protection continues to engage after 
initially resuming either USB Default Operation or Re-negotiation. Latching off the Port or system is an acceptable 
response to recurring over temperature.
7.2.9.4
  Over Current Protection
Sinks that operate with a Programmable Power Supply Shall implement their own internal current protection 
mechanism to protect against internal VBUS current faults as well as erratic Source current regulation. The Sink 
Shall never draw higher current than the Maximum Current value in the PPS APDO.
7.2.10
  Fast Role Swap
As described in Section 7.1.13, "Fast Role Swap" a Fast Role Swap limits the interruption of VBUS power to a bus 
powered accessory connected to a Hub DFP that has a UFP Attached to a power source and a DRP Attached to a Host 
Port that supports DRP. This configuration is shown in Figure 7.16, "VBUS Power during Fast Role Swap".
The Host DRP, upon establishing an Explicit Contract, Shall query the Initial Source's Sink Capabilities to determine 
whether the Initial Source supports Fast Role Swap, and what level of current it requires. If the Sink_Capabilities 
Message received from the Initial Source has at least one of the Fast Role Swap required USB Type-C Current bits 
set, and the Host DRP is able to source the requested current at 5V, the Host DRP May arm itself for Fast Role Swap. 
If the Host DRP has not queried the Sink Capabilities from the Initial Source, or if the Sink_Capabilities Message 
reports no Fast Role Swap support or a current that is beyond what the Host DRP is able or willing to source in the 
event of a Fast Role Swap, the Host DRP Shall Not arm itself for Fast Role Swap and Shall Ignore any Fast Role Swap 
Requests that are detected.
When the Host DRP that supports Fast Role Swap detects the FFast Role Swap Request, the Host DRP Shall stop 
sinking current and Shall be ready and able to source vSafe5V if the residual VBUS voltage level at the Host DRP 
connector is greater than vSafe5V. When the residual VBUS voltage level at the Host DRP connector discharges 
below vSafe5V(min) the Host DRP as the New Source Shall supply vSafe5V to the Hub DRP within tSrcFRSwap. The 
Host DRP Shall Not enable VBUS discharge circuitry when changing Power Roles from Initial Sink to New Source.
The New Source Shall supply vSafe5V at USB Type-C Current (see [USB Type-C 2.4]) at the value Advertised in the 
Fast Role Swap required USB Type-C Current field (see Section 6.4.1.3.1.6, "Fast Role Swap USB Type-C Current"). 
All Source requirements Shall apply to the New Source after the Fast Role Swap is complete The Fast Role Swap 
response of the Hub DRP is described in Section 7.1.13, "Fast Role Swap" since the Hub DRP is operating as the Initial 
Source prior to the Fast Role Swap.
After the Host DRP is providing VBUS power to the Hub DRP, a PS_RDY Message Shall be sent to the Hub DRP as 
defined by the Fast Role Swap Request and the AMS detailed in Section 7.3.4, "Transitions Caused by Fast Role Swap".
