Page 822
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
8.3.3
  State Diagrams
8.3.3.1
  Introduction to state diagrams used in Chapter 8
The state diagrams defined in Section 8.3.3, "State Diagrams" are Normative and Shall define the operation of the 
Power Delivery Policy Engine.
Note:
These state diagrams are not intended to replace a well written and robust design.
Figure 8.127 Outline of States
Figure 8.127, "Outline of States" shows an outline of the states defined in the following sections. At the top there is 
the name of the state. This is followed by "Actions on entry" a list of actions carried out on entering the state. If 
there are also "Actions on exit" a list of actions carried out on exiting the state, then these are listed as well; 
otherwise, this box is omitted from the state. At the bottom the status of PD is listed: 

“Power" which indicates the present output power for a Source Port or input power for a Sink Port.

“PD" which indicates the present Attachment status either "Attached", "Detached", or "unknown".
Transitions from one state to another are indicated by arrows with the conditions listed on the arrow. Where there 
are multiple conditions, these are connected using either a logical OR "|" or a logical AND "&".
In some cases, there are transitions which can occur from any state to a particular state. These are indicated by an 
arrow which is unconnected to a state at one end, but with the other end (the point) connected to the final state.
In some state diagrams it is necessary to enter or exit from states in other diagrams (e.g., Source Port or Sink Port 
state diagrams). Figure 8.128, "References to states" indicates how such references are made. The reference is 
indicated with a hatched box. The box contains the name of the state and whether the state is a DFP or UFP. It has 
also been necessary to indicate conditional entry to either Source Port or Sink Port state diagrams. This is achieved 
by the use of a bulleted list indicating the preconditions (see example in Figure 8.129, "Example of state reference 
with conditions"). It is also possible that the entry and return states are the same. Figure 8.130, "Example of state 
reference with the same entry and exit" indicates a state reference where each referenced state corresponds to 
either the entry state or the exit state.
<Name of State>
Actions on entry:
“List of actions to carry out on entering the 
state”
Power (VI) = “Present power level” 
PD = “attachment status”
Actions on exit:
“List of actions to carry out on exiting the 
state”
