Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 725
Table 8.121, "Steps for a Sink getting Source Information Sequence" below provides a detailed explanation of what 
happens at each labeled step in Figure 8.94, "Sink Gets Source's Information" above.
Table 8.121  Steps for a Sink getting Source Information Sequence
Step
Sink Port
Source Port
1
The Port has Port Power Role set to Sink with the Rd 
pull down on its CC wire.
Policy Engine directs the Protocol Layer to send a 
Get_Source_Info Message.
The Port has Port Power Role set to Source and the Rp 
pull up on its CC wire.
2
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
3
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the 
Get_Source_Info Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the Get_Source_Info Message and 
checks the CRC to verify the Message.
4
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the 
Get_Source_Info Message to the Protocol Layer.
5
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received 
Get_Source_Info Message information to the Policy 
Engine that consumes it.
6
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
7
PHY Layer receives the GoodCRC Message and checks 
the CRC to verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the GoodCRC 
Message.
8
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the GoodCRC 
Message to the Protocol Layer. 
9
Protocol Layer verifies and increments the 
MessageIDCounter and stops CRCReceiveTimer. 
Protocol Layer informs the Policy Engine that the 
Get_Source_Info Message was successfully sent. Policy 
Engine starts SenderResponseTimer.
10
Policy Engine requests the DPM for the present Source 
information which is provided. 
The Policy Engine tells the Protocol Layer to form a 
Source_Info Message.
11
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
12
PHY Layer receives the Message and compares the CRC 
it calculated with the one sent to verify the Source_Info 
Message.
PHY Layer appends a CRC and sends the Source_Info 
Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
13
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received Source_Info 
Message information to the Policy Engine that 
consumes it.
14
The Policy Engine stops the SenderResponseTimer.
15
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
