Page 196
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
The use of Structured VDMs by an Initiator Shall Not interfere with the normal PD Message timing requirements 
nor Shall either the Initiator or Responder interrupt a PD AMS (e.g., Negotiation, Power Role Swap, Data Role Swap 
etc.). The use of Unstructured VDMs Shall Not interfere with normal PD Message timing.
6.4.5
  Battery_Status Message
The Battery_Status Message Shall be sent in response to a Get_Battery_Status Message. The Battery_Status 
Message contains one Battery Status Data Object (BSDO) for one of the Batteries it supports as reported by Number 
of Batteries/Battery Slots field in the Source_Capabilities_Extended Message. The returned BSDO Shall 
correspond to the Battery requested in the Battery Status Ref field contained in the Get_Battery_Status Message.
The Battery_Status Message returns a BSDO whose format Shall be as shown in Figure 6.28, "Battery_Status 
Message" and Table 6.46, "Battery Status Data Object (BSDO)". The Number of Data Objects field in the 
Battery_Status Message Shall be set to 1.
Figure 6.28 Battery_Status Message
6.4.5.1
  Battery Present Capacity
The Battery Present Capacity field Shall return either the Battery's State of Charge (SoC) in tenths of WH or 
indicate that the Battery's present State of Charge (SOC) is unknown.
Table 6.46  Battery Status Data Object (BSDO)
Bit(s)
Field
Description
B31…16
Battery Present 
Capacity
Battery’s State of Charge (SoC) in 0.1 WH increments
Note: 0xFFFF = Battery’s SOC unknown
B15…8
Battery Info
Bit
Description
0
Invalid Battery Reference
 Invalid Battery reference
1
Battery Present
Battery is present when set
3…2
Battery Charging Status
When Battery Present is ‘1’ Shall contain the Battery charging status:

00b: Battery is Charging.

01b: Battery is Discharging.

10b: Battery is Idle.

11b: Reserved, Shall Not be used.
When Battery Present is ‘0’:

11b…00b: Reserved, Shall Not be used.
7…4
Reserved, Shall Not be used.
B7…0
Reserved
Shall be set to zero
Header
No. of Data Objects = 1
BSDO
