Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 459
Table 8.35, "Steps for SPR PPS Keep Alive" below provides a detailed explanation of what happens at each labeled 
step in Figure 8.8, "SPR PPS Keep Alive" above.
Table 8.35  Steps for SPR PPS Keep Alive
Step
Source
Sink
1
The SinkPPSPeriodicTimer times out in the Policy 
Engine. The Policy Engine tells the Protocol Layer to 
form a Request Message.
The Protocol Layer creates the Request Message and 
passes it to PHY Layer.
2
PHY Layer receives the Request Message and 
compares the CRC it calculated with the one sent to 
verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends a CRC and sends the Request 
Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
3
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the Request 
Message to the Protocol Layer. 
4
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer passes the Request information to 
the Policy Engine. Policy Engine stops the 
SourcePPSCommTimer.
5
The Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it to its PHY Layer.
6
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the GoodCRC 
Message.
PHY Layer receives the GoodCRC Message and 
compares the CRC it calculated with the one sent to verify 
the Message.
7
PHY Layer forwards the GoodCRC Message to the 
Protocol Layer. 
8
The Protocol Layer verifies and increments the 
MessageIDCounter. It informs the Policy Engine that 
the Request Message was successfully sent. The Protocol 
Layer stops the CRCReceiveTimer.
The Policy Engine starts SenderResponseTimer. 
9
Policy Engine requests the DPM to evaluate the 
Request Message sent by the Sink and decides if the 
Source can meet the request. The Policy Engine tells 
the Protocol Layer to form an Accept Message. 
10
The Protocol Layer forms the Accept Message that is 
passed to the PHY Layer.
11
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the Accept Message. 
Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the Accept Message and compares 
the CRC it calculated with the one sent to verify the 
Message.
12
PHY Layer forwards the Accept Message to the Protocol 
Layer.
13
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
Protocol Layer informs the Policy Engine that an Accept 
Message has been received. The Policy Engine stops 
SenderResponseTimer, starts the PSTransitionTimer 
and reduces its current draw.
The DPM prepares the Power supply for transition to 
the new power level.
