Page 98
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
5.8.2.2
  Receive Masks
A Source using the BMC Signaling Scheme Shall be capable of receiving a signal that complies with the mask when 
sourcing power as defined in Figure 5.17, "BMC Rx 'ONE' Mask when Sourcing Power", Figure 5.18, "BMC Rx 'ZERO' 
Mask when Sourcing Power" and Table 5.16, "BMC Rx Mask Definition". The Source Rx mask is bounded by sweeping 
a Tx mask compliant signal, with added vNoiseActive between power neutral and Source offsets. 
A Consumer using the BMC Signaling Scheme Shall be capable of receiving a signal that complies with the mask 
when sinking power as defined in Figure 5.21, "BMC Rx 'ONE' Mask when Sinking Power", Figure 5.22, "BMC Rx 
'ZERO' Mask when Sinking Power" and Table 5.16, "BMC Rx Mask Definition". The Consumer Rx mask is bounded by 
sweeping a Tx mask compliant signal, with added vNoiseActive between power neutral and Consumer offsets. 
Every product using the BMC Signaling Scheme Shall be capable of receiving a signal that complies with the mask 
when power neutral as defined in Figure 5.19, "BMC Rx 'ONE' Mask when Power neutral", FFigure 5.20, "BMC Rx 
'ZERO' Mask when Power neutral" and Table 5.16, "BMC Rx Mask Definition".
Dual-Role Power Devices Shall meet the receiver requirements for a Source when providing power during any 
transmission using the BMC Signaling Scheme or a Sink when consuming power during any transmission using the 
BMC Signaling Scheme.
Cable Plugs Shall meet the receiver requirements for both a Source and a Sink during any transmission using the 
BMC Signaling Scheme.
The parameters used in the masks are specified to be appropriate to either edge triggered or oversampling 
receiver implementations.
The masks are defined for 'ONE' and 'ZERO' separately as BMC enforces a transition at the midpoint of the unit 
interval while a 'ONE' is transmitted.
The Rx masks are defined to bound the Rx noise after the Rx bandwidth limiting filter with the time constant 
tRxFilter has been applied.
The boundaries of Rx outer mask, Y1Rx and Y5Rx, are specified according to vSwing max and accommodate half 
of vNoiseActive from cable noise coupling and the signal offset vIRDropGNDC due to the ground offset when 
current is flowing in the cable. 
The vertical dimension of the Rx inner mask, Y4Rx - Y2Rx, for power neutral is derived by reducing the vertical 
dimension of the Tx inner mask, Y7Tx - Y3Tx, at time location X3Tx by vNoiseActive to account for cable noise 
coupling. The received signal is composed of a waveform compliant to the Tx mask plus vNoiseActive.
The vertical dimension of the Rx inner mask for sourcing power is derived by reducing the vertical dimension of 
the Tx inner mask by vNoiseActive and vIRDropGNDC to account for both cable noise coupling and signal DC offset. 
Table 5.15  BMC Tx Mask Definition, Y Values
Name
Description
Value
Units
Y1Tx
Lower bound of Out-
er mask
-0.075
V
Y2Tx
Lower bound of in-
ner mask
0.075
V
Y3Tx
see figure
0.15
V
Y4Tx
see figure
0.325
V
Y5Tx
Inner mask vertical 
midpoint
0.5625
V
Y6Tx
see figure
0.8
V
Y7Tx
see figure
0.975
V
Y8Tx
see figure
1.04
V
Y9Tx
Upper Bound of Out-
er mask
1.2
V
