Page 418
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
could mean that a Port which is initially consuming power as a Sink is able to become a power resource as a Source. 
Conversely, Attached Sources might request that power be provided to them.
The functionality within the Device Policy Manager (and to a certain extent the Policy Engine) is scalable depending 
on the complexity of the device, including the number of different power supply Capabilities and the number of 
different features supported for example System Policy Manager interface or Capabilities Mismatch, and the 
number of ports being managed. Within these parameters it is possible to implement devices from very simple 
power supplies to more complex power supplies or devices such as USB Hubs or Hard Drives. Within multi-Port 
devices it is also permitted to have a combination of USB Power Delivery and non-USB Power Delivery ports which 
Should all be managed by the Device Policy Manager.
As noted in Section 2.6, "Architectural Overview" the logical architecture used in the PD specification will vary 
depending on the implementation. This means that different implementations of the Device Policy Manager might 
be relatively small or large depending on the complexity of the device, as indicated above. It is also possible to 
allocate different responsibilities between the Policy Engine and the Device Policy Manager, which will lead to 
different types of architectures and interfaces.
The Device Policy Manager is responsible for the following:

Maintaining the Local Policy for the device. 

For a Source, monitoring the present Capabilities and triggering notifications of the change.

For a Sink, evaluating and responding to Capabilities related requests from the Policy Engine for a given 
Port.

Control of the Source/Sink in the device.

Control of the USB-C® Port Control module for each Port.

Interface to the Policy Engine for a given Port.
The Device Policy Manager is responsible for the following Optional features when implemented:

Communications with the System Policy over USB.

For Sources with multiple ports monitoring and balancing power requirements across these ports.

Monitoring of batteries and AC power supplies.

Managing Modes in its Port Partner and Cable Plug(s).
8.2.1
  Capabilities
The Device Policy Manager in a Provider Shall know the power supplies available in the device and their 
Capabilities. In addition, it Shall be aware of any other PD sources of power such as batteries and AC inputs. The 
available power sources and existing demands on the device Shall be taken into account when presenting 
Capabilities to a Sink.
The Device Policy Manager in a Consumer Shall know the requirements of the Sink and use this to evaluate the 
Capabilities offered by a Source. It Shall be aware of its own power sources e.g., Batteries or AC supplies where 
these have a bearing on its operation as a Sink.
The Device Policy Manager in a Dual-Role Power Device Shall combine the above Capabilities and Shall also be able 
to present the dual-role nature of the device to an Attached PD Capable device.
8.2.2
  System Policy
A given PD Capable device might have no USB capability, or PD might have been added to a USB device in such a 
way that PD is not integrated with USB. In these two cases there Shall be no requirement for the Device Policy 
Manager to interact with the USB interface of the device. The following requirements Shall only apply to PD 
devices that expose PD functionality over USB.
