Page 482
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
16
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the Message.
PHY Layer receives the Message and compares the CRC it 
calculated with the one sent to verify the Message.
17
PHY Layer forwards the GoodCRC Message to the 
Protocol Layer. 
18
The Protocol Layer verifies and increments the 
MessageIDCounter. It informs the Policy Engine that 
the EPR_Request Message was successfully sent. The 
Protocol Layer stops the CRCReceiveTimer.
The Policy Engine starts SenderResponseTimer. 
19
Policy Engine evaluates the EPR_Request Message 
sent by the Sink and decides if it can meet the request. It 
tells the Protocol Layer to form an Accept Message. 
20
The Protocol Layer forms the Accept Message that is 
passed to the PHY Layer.
21
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the Accept Message. 
Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the Message and compares the CRC 
it calculated with the one sent to verify the Message.
22
PHY Layer forwards the Accept Message to the Protocol 
Layer.
23
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
Protocol Layer informs the Policy Engine that an Accept 
Message has been received. The Policy Engine stops 
SenderResponseTimer, starts the PSTransitionTimer 
and reduces its current draw.
The DPM prepares the Power supply for transition to 
the new power level.
24
The Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it to its PHY Layer.
25
PHY Layer receives the Message and compares the CRC 
it calculated with the one sent to verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the Message.
26
PHY Layer forwards the GoodCRC Message to the 
Protocol Layer. The Protocol Layer verifies and 
increments the MessageIDCounter and stops the 
CRCReceiveTimer.
27
The Protocol Layer informs the Policy Engine that an 
Accept Message was successfully sent.
Power supply Adjusts its Output to the Negotiated Value
28
The DPM informs the Policy Engine that the power 
supply has settled at the new operating condition and 
tells the Protocol Layer to send a PS_RDY Message.
29
The Protocol Layer forms the PS_RDY Message.
30
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the PS_RDY Message. 
Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the PS_RDY Message and compares 
the CRC it calculated with the one sent to verify the 
Message.
31
PHY Layer forwards the PS_RDY Message to the 
Protocol Layer.
Table 8.42  Steps for a successful EPR Power Negotiation
Step
Source
Sink
