Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 535
Table 8.59, "Steps for Source initiated Hard Reset - Sink long reset" below provides a detailed explanation of what 
happens at each labeled step in Figure 8.32, "Source initiated reset - Sink long reset" above.
Table 8.59  Steps for Source initiated Hard Reset - Sink long reset
Step
Source
Sink
1
The Policy Engine directs the Protocol Layer to 
generate Hard Reset Signaling. 
The Policy Engine starts the NoResponseTimer and 
requests the DPM to reset the power supply to USB 
Default Operation. The Policy Engine requests the 
DPM to reset the Port Data Role to DFP and to turn off 
VCONN if this is on.
2
Protocol Layer resets MessageIDCounter, stored copy 
of MessageID and RetryCounter.
Protocol Layer requests the PHY Layer send Hard Reset 
Signaling.
3
PHY Layer sends the Hard Reset Signaling and then 
disables the PHY Layer communications channel for 
transmission and reception.
PHY Layer receives the Hard Reset Signaling and 
disables the PHY Layer communications channel for 
transmission and reception.
4
PHY Layer informs the Protocol Layer of the Hard Reset.
Protocol Layer resets MessageIDCounter, stored copy 
of MessageID and RetryCounter.
5
The Protocol Layer Informs the Policy Engine of the 
Hard Reset.
The Policy Engine requests the DPM to reset the Power 
Sink to USB Default Operation. The Policy Engine 
requests the DPM to reset the Port Data Role to UFP 
and to turn off VCONN if this is on.
6
The power supply is reset to USB Default Operation and 
VCONN is turned on.
The Policy Engine informs the Protocol Layer that the 
power supply has been reset.
7
The Protocol Layer informs the PHY Layer that the Hard 
Reset is complete.
The PHY Layer enables the PHY Layer communications 
channel for transmission and reception.
The reset is complete and protocol communication can restart.
8
Policy Engine directs the Protocol Layer to send a 
Source_Capabilities Message that represents the 
power supply’s present capabilities. Policy Engine 
starts the SourceCapabilityTimer. The 
SourceCapabilityTimer times out one or more times 
until a GoodCRC Message response is received.
9
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
10
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the 
Source_Capabilities Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
Note: Source_Capabilities Message not received since 
channel is disabled.
11
The Power Sink returns to USB Default Operation. The 
Policy Engine informs the Protocol Layer that the 
Power Sink has been reset.
