Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 199
6.4.6.1
  Type of Alert
The Type of Alert field Shall be used to report Source or Sink status changes. Only one Alert Message Shall be 
generated for each Event or Change; however multiple Type of Alert bits May be set in one Alert Message. Once the 
Alert Message has been sent the Type of Alert field Shall be cleared.
A Get_Battery_Status Message Should be sent in response to a Battery status change in an Alert Message to get the 
details of the change.
A Get_Status Message Should be sent in response to a non-Battery status change in an Alert Message from to get 
the details of the change.
6.4.6.1.1
  Battery Status Change
The Battery Status Change Event bit Shall be set when any Battery's power state changes between charging, 
discharging, neither. For Hot Swappable Batteries, it Shall also be set when a Battery is Attached or Detached.
6.4.6.1.2
  Over-Current Protection Event
The OCP Event bit Shall be set when a Source detects its output current exceeds its limits triggering its protection 
circuitry. This bit is Reserved for a Sink.
6.4.6.1.3
  Over-Temperature Protection Event
The OTP Event bit Shall be set when a Source or Sink shuts down due to over-temperature triggering its protection 
circuitry.
6.4.6.1.4
  Operating Condition Change
The Operating Condition Change bit Shall be set when a Source or Sink detects its Operating Condition enters or 
exits either the 'warning' or 'over temperature' temperature states.
The Operating Condition Change bit Shall be set when the Source operating in the Programmable Power Supply 
mode detects it has changed its operating condition between Constant Voltage (CV) and Current Limit (CL).
6.4.6.1.5
  Source Input Change Event
The Source Input Change Event bit Shall be set when the Source/Sink's input changes. For example, when the AC 
input is removed, and the Source/Sink continues to be powered from one or more of its batteries or when AC 
returns and the Source/Sink transitions from Battery to AC operation or when the Source/Sink changes operation 
from one (or more) Battery to another (or more) Battery. 
B15…4
Reserved
Shall be set to zero
B3…0
Extended Alert Event 
Type
When the Extended Alert Event bit in the Type of Alert field equals ‘1’, then the 
Extended Alert Event Type field indicates the event which has occurred:

0 = Reserved.

1 = Power state change (DFP only)

2 = Power button press (UFP only)

3 = Power button release (UFP only)

4 = Controller initiated wake e.g., Wake on LAN (UFP only)

5-15 = Reserved
When the Extended Alert Event bit in the Type of Alert field equals ‘0’, then the 
Extended Alert Event Type field is Reserved and Shall be set to zero.
Table 6.47  Alert Data Object (ADO) (Continued)
Bit(s)
Field
Description
