Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 995
10
 Power Rules
10.1
  Introduction
The flexibility of power provision on USB Type-C® is expected to lead to power adapter re-use and the increasingly 
widespread provision of USB power outlets in domestic and public places and in transport of all kinds. 
Environmental considerations could result in unbundled power adapters. Rules are needed to avoid 
incompatibility between the Sources and the Sinks they are used to power, in order to avoid user confusion and to 
meet user expectations. This section specifies a set of rules that Sources and Sinks Shall follow. These rules provide 
a simple and consistent user experience. 
The PDP Rating is a manufacturer declared value placed on packaging to help the user understand the capabilities 
of a Charger or the size of Charger required to power their device. For PDP values of 10W and above the PDP Shall 
be declared as an integer number of Watts. For PDP values less than 10W, the PDP Shall be declared in increments 
of 0.5W.
The Source Power Rules define a PDP to provide a simple way to tell the user about the capabilities of their power 
adapter or device. PDP Rating is akin to the wattage rating of a light bulb - bigger numbers mean more capability. 
The Sink Power Rules define a PDP to provide a simple way to tell the user which Sources will provide adequate 
power for their Sink.
10.2
  Source Power Rules
The Source Power Rules defined in this section include both Normative and Optional rules. For all of the defined 
rules, the capabilities a Source exposes are based on the Port Maximum PDP, or if power constrained, the Port 
Present PDP of the Port.
For a Guaranteed Capability Port, the Source Shall always include in every Source_Capabilities or 
EPR_Source_Capabilities Message sent to a Sink all the (A)PDOs that are defined by the Normative (and Optional 
when implemented) rules based on the Port’s Port Maximum PDP and Mode of operation (i.e., SPR Mode or EPR 
Mode).
For a Managed Capability Port, except before the First Explicit Contract or before the Explicit Contract after the Port 
Present PDP changes on a Shared Capacity Charger Port, the Source Shall always include in every 
Source_Capabilities or EPR_Source_Capabilities Message sent to a Sink all the (A)PDOs that are defined by the 
Normative (and Optional when implemented) rules based on the Port’s Port Present PDP and Mode of operation 
(i.e., SPR Mode or EPR Mode). After the First Explicit Contract, this requirement assures that the attached Sink will 
always know what voltages (or voltage modes) are presently available from the Source.
In order to meet the expectations of the user, the Maximum Current/Power in the Source Capabilities PDO or APDO 
for Sources with a PDP Rating of x Watts Shall be as follows:

Maximum current for Normative and Optional Fixed Supply/Variable Supply PDOs Shall be either 
RoundUp(x/voltage) or RoundDown(x/voltage) to the nearest 10mA.

Maximum current for SPR Programmable Power Supply APDOs Shall be as defined in Table 10.10, "SPR 
Programmable Power Supply PDOs and APDOs based on the Port Maximum PDP".
Note:
When the Constant Power bit is set in the APDO, the programmable power supply's output current is as 
defined in Table 10.10, "SPR Programmable Power Supply PDOs and APDOs based on the Port Maximum 
PDP" however the programmable power supply will limit its output current so that the product of its 
actual output voltage times the output current does not exceed the PDP.

If a 9V Prog, 15V Prog or 20V Prog Programmable Power Supply APDO is Advertised when not required 
by Table 10.10, "SPR Programmable Power Supply PDOs and APDOs based on the Port Maximum PDP", 
then the maximum current Shall be RoundDown (x/Prog Voltage) to the nearest 50mA. When the PPS 
Power Limited bit is clear the Source Shall provide this current at Maximum Voltage.

Maximum power for Optional Battery Supply PDOs Shall be ≤ x.
