Page 54
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
An Implicit Contract is the specified level of power allowed in particular states (i.e., during and after a Power Role 
Swap or Fast Role Swap). Implicit Contracts are temporary; Port Pairs are required to immediately Negotiate an 
Explicit Contract.
Each Provider has a Local Policy, governing power allocation to its Ports. Consumers also have their own Local Policy 
governing how they draw power. A System Policy can be enacted over USB that allows modification to this Local 
Policy and hence management of overall power allocation in the system.
When PD Capable devices are Attached to each other, the DFPs and UFPs initially default to standard USB Default 
Operation. The DFP supplies vSafe5V and the UFP draws current in accordance with the rules defined by [USB 2.0], 
[USB 3.2], [USB Type-C 2.4] or [USBBC 1.2] specifications. After Power Delivery Negotiation has taken place, 
power can be supplied at higher, or lower, voltages and higher currents than defined in these specifications. It is 
also possible to:

Do a Power Role Swap or Fast Role Swap to exchange the Power Roles such that the DFP receives power 
and the UFP supplies power. 

Do a Data Role Swap such that the DFP becomes the UFP and vice-versa.

Do a VCONN Swap to change the Port supplying VCONN to the cable.

Enter into EPR Mode.

Enter into USB4® Mode.

Enter into Alternate Modes.

Send Vendor Defined Messages.
Prior to the First Explicit Contract only the Source Port, which is also the VCONN Source, can communicate with the 
Attached cable assembly. This is important where 5A and EPR capability are marked as well as other details of the 
cable assembly such as the supported speed. 
Cable Discovery, determining whether the cable can communicate, can occur on initial Attachment of a Port Pair 
before an Explicit Contract has been established. It is also possible to carry out Cable Discovery after a Power Role 
Swap or Fast Role Swap prior to re-establishing an Explicit Contract, where the UFP is the Source, and an Implicit 
Contract is in place. Cable Discovery can be carried out after an Explicit Contract has been established, if the cable 
has not yet been discovered.
2.1.3
  Other Uses for Power Delivery
Once an Explicit Contract is in place, PD can be used to manage the Ports and cables for non-power related 
functionality. 
PD is used to enter the USB4® Mode of operation. Ports and cables can support functionality beyond power. For 
example, a cable can have active components that require VCONN power or a Port/cable can support a video display 
Alternate Mode such as DisplayPort. PD defines an infrastructure to discover these additional Capabilities and 
Modes that include:

Discovering a Port or Cable Plug's Capabilities.

Discovery of the SVIDs a Port or Cable Plug supports.

Discovery of the Modes a Port or Cable Plug supports.

Entry into a Mode supported by the Port and/or Cable Plug.

Exiting Modes supported by the Port and/or Cable Plug.
2.2
  Compatibility with Revision 2.0
Revision 3.x of the USB Power Delivery specification is designed to be fully inter-operable with [USBPD 2.0] 
systems using BMC Signaling over the [USB Type-C 2.4] connector and to be compatible with Revision 2.0 
hardware. 
