Page 420
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
8.2.5
  Managing Power Requirements
It is the responsibility of the Device Policy Manager in a Provider to be aware of the power requirements of all 
devices connected to its Source Ports. This includes being aware of any reserve power that might be required by 
devices in the future and ensuring that power is shared optimally amongst Attached PD Capable devices. This is a 
key function of the Device Policy Manager; whose implementation is critical to ensuring that all PD Capable devices 
get the power they require in a timely fashion in order to facilitate smooth operation. This is balanced by the fact 
that the Device Policy Manager is responsible for managing the sources of power that are, by definition, finite.
The Consumer's Device Policy Manager Shall ensure that it takes no more power than is required to perform its 
functions and when its requirements change, it Should make a new Request. The Provider, after satisfying the 
Request, Should reclaim any unused power to ensure that it can meet total power requirements of Attached Sinks 
on at least one Port.
Note:
It is expected that a future design guide will provide additional guidance.
8.2.5.1
  Managing the Power Reserve
There might be some products where a Device has certain functionality at one power level and a greater 
functionality at another, for example a Printer/Scanner that operates only as a printer with one power level and as 
a scanner if it can get more power. While the visibility of the linkage between power and functionality might only 
be apparent to the USB Host; the Device Policy Manager Should provide mechanisms to manage the power 
requirements of such Devices.
It is the Device Policy Manager's responsibility to allocate power and maintain a power reserve so as not to over-
subscribe its available power resource. A Device with multiple ports such as a Hub Shall always attempt to meet 
the incremental demands of the Port requiring the highest incremental power from its power reserve.
8.2.5.2
  Power Capability Mismatch
A Capabilities Mismatch occurs when a Consumer cannot obtain required power from a Provider (or the Source is 
not PD Capable) and the Consumer requires such Capabilities to operate. Different actions are taken by the Device 
Policy Manager and the System Policy Manager in this case.
8.2.5.2.1
  Local device handling of mismatch
The Consumer's Device Policy Manager Shall cause a notification to be displayed to the end user that a power 
Capabilities Mismatch has occurred. Examples of such feedback can include:

For a simple Device an LED May be used to indicate the failure. For example, during connection the LED 
could be solid amber. If the connection is successful, the LED could change to green. If the connection 
fails, it could be red or alternately blink amber.

A more sophisticated Device with a user interface, e.g., a mobile device or monitor, Should provide no-
tification through the user interface on the Device.
The Provider's Device Policy Manager May cause a notification to be displayed to the user of the power Capabilities 
Mismatch.
Because the Capabilities Mismatch might not cause operational failure, the Provider's Device Policy Manager Should 
Not display a notification to the user if the power offered to the Sink meets or exceeds the SPR Sink Minimum PDP/
EPR Sink Minimum PDP Advertised in the Sink_Capabilities_Extended Message (see Section 6.5.13, 
"Sink_Capabilities_Extended Message"). If a notification is displayed, it Should Not be shown as an error unless the 
power offered to the Sink is less than the SPR Sink Minimum PDP/EPR Sink Minimum PDP Advertised in the 
Sink_Capabilities_Extended Message.
8.2.5.2.2
  Device Policy Manager Communication with System Policy
In a USB Power Delivery aware system with an active System Policy Manager (see Section 8.2.2, "System Policy"), the 
Device Policy Manager Shall notify the System Policy Manager of the mismatch. This information Shall be passed 
back to the System Policy Manager using the mechanisms described in [UCSI]. The System Policy Manager Should 
