Page 200
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
6.4.6.1.6
  Over-Voltage Protection Event
The OVP Event bit Shall be set when the Sink detects its output voltage exceeds its limits triggering its protection 
circuitry. 
The OVP Event bit May be set when the Source detects its output voltage exceeds its limits triggering its protection 
circuitry. 
6.4.6.1.7
  Extended Alert Event
The Extended Alert Event bit Shall be set when the event is defined as an Extended Alert Type.
6.4.6.2
  Fixed Batteries
The Fixed Batteries field indicates which Fixed Batteries have had a status change. B20 corresponds to Battery 0 
and B23 corresponds to Battery 3.
Once the Alert Message has been sent the Fixed Batteries field Shall be cleared.
6.4.6.3
  Hot Swappable Batteries
The Hot Swappable Batteries field indicates which Hot Swappable Batteries have had a status change. B16 
corresponds to Battery 0 and B19 corresponds to Battery 3.
Once the Alert Message has been sent the Hot Swappable Batteries field Shall be cleared.
6.4.6.4
  Extended Alert Event Types
The Extended Alert Event Type field provides extensions to the available types for the Alert Message. If the 
Extended Alert Event Type bit is not set, then the Extended Alert Event Type is Reserved and Shall be set to zero.
6.4.6.4.1
  Power State Change
The Power state change event value May be set when the DFP transitions into a new power state. The new power 
state Shall be communicated via the Power state change byte in the Status Message. This Message Should be sent 
by the host in response to any system power state change.
6.4.6.4.2
  Power Button Press
The Power button press event value May be set when the power button on the UFP is pressed. The press and 
release events are separated into two different events so that devices that respond differently to a long button 
press will see a long button press. On the host-side, the power button press event typically initiates the same 
behavior as a power button press of the host's power button.
6.4.6.4.3
  Power Button Release
If a Power button press event was sent, then the Power button release event value Shall be sent by the UFP 
following the Power button press event. If a physical power button press initiated the Power button press event, 
then the Power button release event Should be sent when the physical button is released.
6.4.6.4.4
  Controller Initiated Wake
The Controller initiated wake is used to communicate a wake event from the UFP to the DPF such as Wake on LAN 
from a NIC or another controller. This event doesn't need the press/release form of the Power button press, 
because it only needs to communicate the presence of the event, and not the timing.
