Page 422
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Figure 8.1 Example of daisy chained displays
Another example use case is a laptop computer that is Attached to both an external supply and a Tablet computer. 
In this situation, if the external supply is large enough to power the laptop in its normal state as well as charge an 
external device, the laptop would set its "Unconstrained Power" bit and the tablet will allow itself to charge at its 
peak rate. If the external supply is small, however, and would not prevent the laptop from discharging if maximal 
power is drawn by the external device, the laptop would not set its "Unconstrained Power" bit, and the tablet can 
choose to draw less than what is offered. This amount could be just enough to prevent the tablet from discharging, 
or none at all. Alternatively, if the tablet determines that the laptop has significantly larger battery with more 
charge than the tablet has, the tablet can still choose to charge itself, although possibly not at the maximal rate.
In this way, Sinks that do not receive the Unconstrained Power bit from the connected Source can still choose to 
charge their batteries, or charge at a reduced rate, if their policy determines that the impact to the Source is 
minimal -- such as in the case of a phone with a small battery charging from a laptop with a large battery. These 
policies can be decided via further USB PD communication.
8.2.6.2
  Battery Supplies
When monitored, and a USB interface is supported, the Battery state Shall be reported to the System Policy 
Manager using the USB interface.
If the device is Battery-powered but is in a state that is primarily for charging external devices, the device is 
considered to be an unconstrained source of power and thus Should set the "Unconstrained Power" bit.
A simplified algorithm is detailed below to ensure that Battery powered devices will get charge from non-Battery 
powered devices when possible, and also to ensure that devices do not constantly Power Role Swap back and forth.
When two devices are connected that do not have Unconstrained Power, they Should define their own policies so 
as to prevent constant Power Role Swapping.
This algorithm uses the "Unconstrained Power" bit (see Section 6.4.1.2.1.3, "Unconstrained Power" and Section 
6.4.1.3.1.3, "Unconstrained Power"), thus the decisions are based on the availability and sufficiency of an external 
supply, not the full Capabilities of a system or device or product.
Recommendations:

Provider/Consumers using large external sources ("Unconstrained Power" bit set) Should always deny 
Power Role Swap requests from Consumer/Providers not using external sources ("Unconstrained Pow-
er" bit cleared).
AC
Tablet
Display 1
Display 2
