Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 53
2
 Overview
This section contains no Normative requirements. 
2.1
  Introduction
USB Power Delivery (PD) defines the mechanisms for pairs of directly Attached Ports (also referred to as Port 
Partners or Port Pairs) to Negotiate voltage, current and/or direction of power flow over the USB cable. It uses the 
USB Type-C® connector's CC wire as the communications channel. The PD mechanisms operate independently of 
and supersede other USB methods defined in [USB 2.0], [USB 3.2], [USBBC 1.2] and [USB Type-C 2.4].
USB Power Delivery also defines sideband mechanisms used for configuration management of USB Type-C devices 
and cables. Using Structured Vendor Defined Messages (Structured VDMs), PD facilitates discovery of device and 
cables features and performance. Structured VDMs are also used to enter/exit some Active Modes, either USB-based 
(e.g., USB4® Mode) or USB Type-C Alternate Modes. Alternate Modes are associated with Standard or Vendor IDs 
(SVIDs) and can be either standard (e.g., DisplayPort Alternate Mode) or proprietary (e.g., Intel Thunderbolt™ 3).
2.1.1
  Power Delivery Source Operational Contracts
A PD Source will be in one of three Contracts:

Default Contract which it enters immediately following a Connect where the Source provides 5V and 
Advertises the amount of current it can deliver using the Rp value as defined in [USB Type-C 2.4]. A 
Source in a Default Contract will remain in this Contract until the Sink is Detached or the Source and Sink 
Negotiate and enter an Explicit Contract.

Implicit Contract which immediately follows a Power Role Swap or Fast Role Swap and is transitory. The 
PD Source provides 5V and Advertises the amount of current it can deliver using the Rp value as defined 
in [USB Type-C 2.4]. A Source in an Implicit Contract will immediately Negotiate with the Sink and enter 
an Explicit Contract.

Explicit Contract is the state of the Source after any PD power Negotiation consisting of the Source 
sending a Source_Capabilities Message, the Sink responding with a Request Message, the Source 
acknowledging the request with an Accept Message and finally the Source sends a PS_RDY Message 
when the Source is ready to deliver the requested power. This is the normal operational state for PD. A 
Source in an Explicit Contract will remain in an Explicit Contract during and after a Re-negotiation of its 
Contract and will exit the Explicit Contract when:

Disconnected from the Sink where it will restart in a Default Contract when reconnected to the Sink.

Following a Hard Reset where it will restart as if it were Detached then Attached to the Sink.

Following a Power Role Swap or Fast Role Swap where it will enter an Implicit Contract.

Following USB Type-C Error Recovery which is an electrical Detach/Re-attach (remove and assert 
Rp).
2.1.2
  Power Delivery Contract Negotiation
Contracts Negotiated using the USB Power Delivery Specification supersede any and all previous power contracts 
established whether from standard [USB 2.0], [USB 3.2], [USBBC 1.2] or [USB Type-C 2.4] mechanisms. While 
operating in Power Delivery Mode there will be a Contract in place (either Explicit Contract or Implicit Contract) that 
determines the power level available and the direction of that power. The Port Pair will remain in Power Delivery 
Mode until the Port Pair is Detached, there is a Hard Reset, or USB Type-C Error Recovery, or the Source removes 
power except as part of the Power Role Swap or Fast Role Swap processes.
Note:
[USB4] does not define a default power, rather relies on a PD power Contract. When first Attached the 
[USB4] device operates in [USB 3.2] Mode which is its USB Default Operation.
An Explicit Contract is Negotiated by the process of the Source sending a set of Capabilities, from which the Sink is 
required to request a particular capability and then the Source accepting this request. 
