Page 152
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Figure 6.12, "SPR Capabilities Message Construction" describes the construction of an SPR Capabilities Message. The 
Message will always have at least one Fixed Supply 5V PDO and may have up to six more PDOs depending on the 
Source Capabilities.
Figure 6.12 SPR Capabilities Message Construction
Figure 6.13 Example Capabilities Message with 2 Power Data Objects
In the 27W Source as shown in Figure 6.13, "Example Capabilities Message with 2 Power Data Objects", the Number 
of Data Objects field is 2: vSafe5V plus one other voltage.
Power Data Objects (PDO) and Augmented Power Data Objects (APDO) are identified by the Message Header's 
Message Type field. They are used to form SPR Capabilities Messages.
6.4.1.5
  SPR Source Capabilities Message
Sources send a Source_Capabilities Message either as part of advertising Port Capabilities, or in response to a 
Get_Source_Cap Message. See Section 6.5.15.2, "EPR_Source_Capabilities Message" for information about EPR Source 
Capabilities Messages.
Following a Hard Reset, a power-on event or plug insertion event, a Source Port Shall send a Source_Capabilities 
Message after every SourceCapabilityTimer timeout as an Advertisements that Shall be interpreted by the Sink 
Port on Attachment. The Source Shall continue sending a minimum of nCapsCount Source_Capabilities Messages 
until a GoodCRC Message is received.
Additionally, a Source_Capabilities Message Shall only be sent by a Port in the following cases:

By the Source Port from the PE_SRC_Ready state upon a change in its ability to supply power to this 
Port.

By a Source Port or Dual-Role Power Port in response to a Get_Source_Cap Message.

Optionally by a Source Port from the PE_SRC_Ready state when available power in a multi-Port system 
changes, even if the Source Capabilities for this Port have not changed.
A Source Port Shall report its Capabilities in a series of 32-bit Power Data Objects (see Table 6.7, "Power Data 
Object") as part of a Source_Capabilities Message (see Figure 6.13, "Example Capabilities Message with 2 Power 
Data Objects"). Power Data Objects are used to convey a Source Port's Capabilities to provide power including Dual-
Role Power ports presently operating as a Sink.
Each Power Data Object Shall describe a specific Source capability such as a Battery (e.g., 2.8-4.1V) or a Fixed Supply 
(e.g., 15V) at a maximum allowable current. The Number of Data Objects field in the Message Header Shall define 
the number of Power Data Objects that follow the Message Header in a Data Message. All Sources Shall minimally 
offer one Power Data Object that reports vSafe5V. A Source Shall Not offer multiple Power Data Objects of the same 
type (Fixed Supply, Variable Supply, Battery Supply) and the same voltage but Shall instead offer one Power Data 
Object with the highest available current for that Source capability and voltage. 
Header
2 bytes
PDO
1
PDO
2
PDO
3
PDO
4
PDO
5
PDO
6
PDO
7
001b
010b
011b
100b
101b
110b
111b
Header
No. of Data Objects = 2
Fixed 5V 
PDO
Fixed 9V 
PDO
