Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 159
This field Shall apply to the Fixed Supply and Variable Supply RDO in SPR Mode and the Fixed Supply RDO in EPR 
Capable.
6.4.2.10
  Operating Power
The Operating Power field in the Request Data Object Shall be set to the highest power the Sink will draw 
throughout the Explicit Contract.
This field Shall apply to the Battery Supply RDO.
6.4.2.11
  Maximum Operating Power
The Maximum Operating Power field has been functionally Deprecated. In order to maintain backward 
compatibility with Sources that may try to interpret the Maximum Operating Power field in the Request Message, 
the field Shall be set equal to the value of the Operating Power field. To ensure backward compatibility, the Source 
Should Ignore this field.
This field Shall apply to the Battery Supply RDO.
6.4.2.12
  Output Voltage 
The Output Voltage field in the Programmable and AVS Request Data Objects Shall be set by the Sink to the voltage 
the Sink requires as measured at the Source's output connector. The Output Voltage field Shall be greater than or 
equal to the Minimum Voltage field and less than or equal to the Maximum Voltage field in the Programmable 
Power Supply and AVS APDOs, respectively.
This field Shall apply to the Programmable RDO and AVS RDO.
6.4.3
  BIST Message
The BIST Message is sent to request the Port to enter a PHY Layer test mode (see Section 5.9, "Built in Self-Test 
(BIST)") that performs one of the following functions:

Enter a Continuous BIST Mode to send a continuous stream of test data to the Tester.

Enter and leave a Shared Capacity Group test mode.
The Message format is as shown in Figure 6.14, "BIST Message".
Figure 6.14 BIST Message
All Ports Shall be able to be a Unit Under Test (UUT) only when operating at vSafe5V. All of the following BIST 
Modes Shall be supported:

Process reception of a BIST Carrier Mode BIST Data Object that Shall result in the generation of the 
appropriate carrier signal.

Process reception of a BIST Test Data BIST Data Object that Shall result in the Message being Ignored.
UUTs with Ports constituting a Shared Capacity Group (see [USB Type-C 2.4]) Shall support the following BIST 
Mode:

Process reception of a BIST Shared Test Mode Entry BIST Data Object that Shall cause the UUT to enter 
BIST Shared Capacity Test Mode; a mode in which the UUT offers its full Source Capabilities on every Port 
in the Shared Capacity Group. 
Header
No. of Data Objects = 1 or 7
BIST Data Object
