Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 191
Alternate Mode as it is the first object following the VDM Header. The value 2 refers to the next Alternate Mode and 
so forth. A value of 111b in the Object Position field Shall indicate that all Active Modes Shall be exited.
The Number of Data Objects field in both the Command request and Command response (ACK, NAK) Shall be set 
to 1 since an Exit Mode Command Shall Not contain any VDOs.
The Responder Shall exit its Active Mode before sending the response Message. The Initiator Shall exit its Active 
Mode when it receives the ACK. The Responder Shall Not return a BUSY acknowledgment and Shall only return a 
NAK acknowledgment to a request not containing an Active Mode (i.e., Invalid object position). An Initiator which 
fails to receive an ACK within tVDMWaitModeExit or receives a NAK or BUSY response Shall exit its Active Mode.
See Figure 8.112, "DFP to UFP Exit Mode" for more details.
Figure 6.24, "Exit Mode sequence" shows the sequence of events during the transition between exiting an Active 
Mode and USB operation. It illustrates when the Responder's Alternate Mode changes and when the Initiator's 
Alternate Mode changes.
Figure 6.24 Exit Mode sequence
6.4.4.3.6
  Attention
The Attention Command May be used by the Initiator to notify the Responder that it requires service.
The value in the Object Position field Shall indicate to which Alternate Mode in the Discover Modes Command the 
VDO refers (see Figure 6.21, "Example Discover Modes response for a given SVID with 3 Modes") and Shall have been 
used previously in an Enter Mode Command request for an Active Mode. The value 1 always indicates the first 
Alternate Mode as it is the first object following the VDM Header. The value 2 refers to the next Alternate Mode and 
so forth. A value of 000b or 111b in the Object Position field Shall Not be used by the Attention Command.
DFP (Initiator)
UFP (Responder)
Exit Mode
GoodCRC
GoodCRC
ACK
USB Safe State
USB or USB Safe
State
Mode
Mode
USB
