Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 331
A Source May have greater capability to source peak current than can be reported using the Peak Current field in 
the Fixed Supply PDO or AVS APDO. In this case the Source Shall report its additional capability in the Peak 
Current1/Peak Current2/Peak Current3 fields in the Source_Capabilities_Extended Message.
Each overload period Shall be followed by a period of reduced current draw such that the rolling average current 
over the Overload Period field value with the specified Duty Cycle field value (see Section 6.5.1.10, "Peak Current 
Field") Shall Not exceed the Negotiated current. This is calculated as:
Period of reduced current = (1 - value in Duty Cycle field/100) * value in Overload Period field 
7.1.12.5
  Source Inputs
The Source Inputs field identifies the possible inputs that provide power to the Source. 
Note:
Some Sources are only powered by a Battery (e.g., an automobile) rather than the more common AC 
Supply. 
7.1.12.6
  Batteries
The Number of Batteries/Battery Slots field Shall report the number of Batteries the Source supports. The Source 
Shall independently report the number of Hot Swappable Batteries and the number of Fixed Batteries.
7.1.13
  Fast Role Swap
A Fast Role Swap limits the interruption of VBUS power to a bus powered accessory connected to a Hub DFP that has 
a UFP Attached to a power source and a DRP Attached to a Host Port supporting DRP as shown in Figure 7.16, "VBUS 
Power during Fast Role Swap".
Figure 7.16 VBUS Power during Fast Role Swap
When the power source connected to the Hub UFP stops sourcing power and VBUS at the Hub DRP connector 
discharges below vSrcValid(min), if VBUS has been Negotiated to a higher voltage than vSafe5V, or vSafe5V (min) 
the Fast Role Swap Request Shall be sent from the Hub DRP to the Host DRP and the Hub DRP Shall sink power. In 
the Fast Role Swap use case, the Hub DRP behaves like a bidirectional power path. The Hub DRP Shall Not enable 
VBUS discharge circuitry when changing operation from Initial Source to New Sink. The Hub DFP Port(s) Shall 
support default USB Type-C Current (see [USB Type-C 2.4]) until a new Explicit Contract is Negotiated.
After sending the Fast Role Swap Request and while VBUS > vSafe5V (min), the New Sink Shall Not draw more than 
iNewFrsSink until the New Source has applied its Rp. The New Sink Shall Not draw more than iSnkStdby from VBUS 
until tSnkFRSwap after it has started sending the Fast Role Swap Request or VBUS has fallen below vSafe5V (min). 
The tSnkFRSwap time Shall start at the beginning of the Fast Role Swap Request or when VBUS falls below vSafe5V 
(min), whichever comes later. After waiting for tSnkFRSwap, the New Sink Shall Not draw more than iNewFrsSink 
until the New Source has applied its Rp. After the New Source has applied its Rp, the New Sink Shall be limited to USB 
Type-C Current (see [USB Type-C 2.4]) in an Implicit Contract until a new Explicit Contract is Negotiated. All Sink 
requirements Shall apply to the New Sink after the Fast Role Swap is complete. The Fast Role Swap response of the 
Host DRP is described in Section 7.2.10, "Fast Role Swap" since the Host DRP is operating as the Initial Sink prior to 
the Fast Role Swap.
After the VBUS voltage level at the Hub DRP connector drops below vSafe5V a PS_RDY Message Shall be sent to the 
Host DRP as shown in the Fast Role Swap transition diagram of Section 7.3.4, "Transitions Caused by Fast Role Swap".
USB PD Capable
Hub
DRP
UFP
DFP
Power Source
Bus Powered 
Accessory
USB PD Capable 
Host
DRP
Power flow before the 
Fast Role Swap
Power flow after the 
Fast Role Swap
