Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 417
8.2
  Device Policy Manager
The Device Policy Manager is responsible for managing the power used by one or more USB Power Delivery ports. 
In order to have sufficient knowledge to complete this task it needs relevant information about the device it resides 
in. Firstly, it has a priori knowledge of the device including the Capabilities of the power supply and the receptacles 
on each Port since these will for example have specific current ratings. It also has to know information from the 
USB-C® Port Control module regarding cable insertion, type and rating of cable etc. It also has to have information 
from the power supply about changes in its Capabilities as well as being able to request power supply changes. 
With all of this information the Device Policy Manager is able to provide up to date information regarding the 
Capabilities available to a specific Port and to manage the power resources within the device.
When working out the Capabilities for a given Source Port the Device Policy Manager will take into account firstly 
the current rating of the Port's receptacle and whether the inserted cable is PD or non-PD rated and if so, what is 
the capability of the plug. This will set an upper bound for the Capabilities which might be offered. After this the 
Device Policy Manager will consider the available power supply resources since this will bound which voltages and 
currents might be offered. Finally, the Device Policy Manager will consider what power is currently allocated to 
other ports, which power is in the Power Reserve and any other amendments to Policy from the System Policy 
Manager. The Device Policy Manager will offer a set of Capabilities within the bounds detailed above.
When selecting a capability for a given Sink Port the Device Policy Manager will look at the Capabilities offered by 
the Source. This will set an upper bound for the Capabilities which might be requested. The Device Policy Manager 
will also consider which Capabilities are required by the Sink in order to operate. If an appropriate match for 
voltage and Current can be found within the limits of the receptacle and cable, then this will be requested from the 
Source. If an appropriate match cannot be found then a request for an offered voltage and current will be made, 
along with an indication of a Capabilities Mismatch.
USB PD defines two types of power sources:

Predefined voltage sources (Fixed Supply, Variable Supply and Battery Supply) 

Programmable voltage sources:

Programmable Power Supply (PPS)

Adjustable Voltage Supply (AVS)
The first are generally used for classic charging wherein the Charger electronics reside inside the Sink. The Device 
Policy Manager in the Sink requests a fixed voltage from the list of PDOs offered by the Source and which is 
converted internally to charge the Sink's Battery and/or power its function. 
The second moves the Charger electronics that manage the voltage control outside the Sink and back into the 
Source itself. When in SPR PPS Mode, the Device Policy Manager in the Sink requests a specific voltage with a 20mV 
accuracy and sets a current limit. Unlike traditional USB where Sinks are responsible for limiting the current, they 
consume, the SPR PPS Source limits the current to what the Sink has requested. When operating in, the Device Policy 
Manager in the Sink requests a specific voltage with a 100mV accuracy and requests a maximum current it is 
allowed to draw. 
Note:
The AVS Sources unlike SPR PPS Sources do not support current limit mode. A Sink operating in is respon-
sible not to draw more current than it requests.
The process to request power is the same for both types of power Sources although the actual format and contents 
of the request are slightly different. The primary operational differences are:

A Sink that is using SPR PPS is required to periodically sent requests to let the Source know it is still alive 
and communicating. When this communication fails a Hard Reset results.

A Sink operating in SPR Mode has no special timing requirements.

A Sink operating in EPR Mode is required to periodically communicate with the Source to let it know it 
is still operational. If the communication fails, a Hard Reset results.
For Dual-Role Power Ports the Device Policy Manager manages the functionality of both a Source and a Sink. In 
addition, it is able to manage the Power Role Swap process between the two. In terms of power management this 
