Page 120
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
The Port Data Role field Shall only be defined for SOP Packets. For all other SOP* Packets the Port Data Role field 
is Reserved and Shall be set to zero.
If a USB Type-C Port receives a Message with the Port Data Role field set to the same Data Role as its current Data 
Role, except for the GoodCRC Message, USB Type-C Error Recovery actions as defined in [USB Type-C 2.4] Shall be 
performed.
For a USB Type-C Port the Port Data Role field Shall be set to the default value at Attachment after a Hard Reset: 0b 
for a Port with Rd asserted and 1b for a Port with Rp asserted.
In the case that a Port is not USB Communications capable, at Attachment a Source Port Shall default to DFP and a 
Sink Port Shall default to UFP.
6.2.1.1.7
  Cable Plug
The 1-bit Cable Plug field Shall indicate whether this Message originated from a Cable Plug or VPD:

0b Message originated from a DFP or UFP.

1b Message originated from a Cable Plug or VPD
The Cable Plug field Shall only apply to SOP’ Packet and SOP’’ Packet types.
6.2.1.1.8
  Message Type
The 5-bit Message Type field Shall indicate the type of Message being sent. To fully decode the Message Type, the 
Number of Data Objects field is first examined to determine whether the Message is a Control Message or a Data 
Message. Then the specific Message Type can be found in Table 6.5, "Control Message Types" or Table 6.6, "Data 
Message Types".
The Message Type field Shall apply to all SOP* Packet types.
6.2.1.2
  Extended Message Header
Extended Messages (indicated by the Extended field being set in the Message Header) Shall contain an Extended 
Message Header following the Message Header as shown in Figure 6.3, "USB Power Delivery Packet Format including 
an Extended Message Header and Payload" and defined in “Table 6.3, "Extended Message Header". 
Extended Messages contain Data Blocks of Data Size, defined in the Extended Message, that are either sent in a 
single Message or as a series of Chunks. When the Data Block is sent as a series of Chunks, each Chunk in the series, 
except for the last Chunk, Shall contain MaxExtendedMsgChunkLen bytes. The last Chunk in the series Shall 
contain the remainder of the Data Block and so could be less than MaxExtendedMsgChunkLen bytes and Shall be 
padded to the next 4-byte Data Object boundary.
6.2.1.2.1
  Chunked
The Port Partners Shall use the Unchunked Extended Messages Supported field in the Source_Capabilities 
Message and Unchunked Extended Messages Supported field in the Request Message to determine whether to 
send Messages of Data Size > MaxExtendedMsgLegacyLen bytes in a single Unchunked Extended Message (see 
Section 6.4.1.2.1.6, "Unchunked Extended Messages Supported" and Section 6.4.2.6, "Unchunked Extended Messages 
Supported").
Table 6.3  Extended Message Header
Bit(s)
Start of Packet
Field Name
Reference
15
SOP*
Chunked
Section 6.2.1.2.1
14…11
SOP*
Chunk Number
Section 6.2.1.2.2
10
SOP*
Request Chunk
Section 6.2.1.2.3
9
SOP*
Reserved
8…0
SOP*
Data Size
Section 6.2.1.2.4
