Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 59
2.5
  Operational Overview
A USB Power Delivery Port supplying power is known as a Source and a Port consuming power is known as a Sink. 
There is only one Source Port and one Sink Port in each PD Connection between the Port Partners. At Attach the 
Source Port (the Port with Rp asserted see [USB Type-C 2.4]) is also the DFP and VCONN Source. At Attach the Sink 
Port (the Port with Rd asserted) is also the UFP and is not the VCONN Source.
The original USB PD specification allowed Sources to deliver up to 100W. This classic Mode of operation is referred 
to as the Standard Power Range (SPR). The First Explicit Contract, the first Contract after a Default Contract or 
Implicit Contract, is always an SPR Contract. There is an Optional higher power Mode referred to as the Extended 
Power Range (EPR) where the Source is allowed to deliver up to 240W. The EPR Mode can only be entered from the 
SPR Mode. The entry process is designed to prevent accidental entry into this higher power Mode. It can be entered 
only when an SPR Explicit Contract is in place and both the Source Port and Sink Port as well as the cable support 
EPR.
The Source/Sink Power Roles, DFP/UFP Data Roles and VCONN Source role can all subsequently be swapped 
orthogonally to each other. A Port that supports both Source and Sink Power Roles is called a Dual-Role Power Port 
(DRP). A Port that supports both DFP and UFP Data Roles is called a Dual-Role Data Port (DRD).
When USB Communications capability is supported in the DFP Data Role then the Port will also be able to act as a 
USB Host. Similarly, when USB Communications capability is supported in the UFP Data Role then the Port will also 
be able to act as a USB Device.
The following sections describe the high-level operation of ports taking on the roles of DFP, UFP, Source and Sink.
For details of how PD maps to USB states in a PDUSB Device see Section 9.1.2, "Mapping to USB Device States".
2.5.1
  Source Operation
The Source operates differently depending on its Attachment status:

At Attach (no PD Connection or Contract):

For a Source-only Port the Source detects Sink Attachment.

For a DRP that toggles between Source and Sink operation, the Port becomes a Source Port on 
Attachment of a Sink

The Source then supplies vSafe5V.

Before PD Connection (no PD Connection or Contract):

Prior to sending Source_Capabilities Messages the Source can detect the Cable Capabilities and 
Advertises its Capabilities depending on the Cable Capabilities detected:

The default current carrying capability of a USB Type-C cable is 3A.

The Source can attempt to communicate with one of the Cable Plugs using SOP’ Packets. If the 
Cable Plug responds, then communication takes place to discover the cable's Capabilities (e.g., 5A 
capable).

The Source periodically Advertises its Capabilities by sending Source_Capabilities Messages every 
tTypeCSendSourceCap.

Establishing PD Connection (no PD Connection or Contract):

Presence of a PD Capable Port Partner is detected either:

By receiving a GoodCRC Message in response to a Source_Capabilities Message.

By receiving Hard Reset Signaling.

Establishing the First Explicit Contract after an Attach, Hard Reset, USB Type-C Error Recovery or Implicit 
Contract as a result of a Power Role Swap or Fast Role Swap:
