Page 162
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
6.4.4
  Vendor Defined Message
The Vendor_Defined Message (VDM) is provided to allow vendors to exchange information outside of that defined 
by this specification.
A Vendor_Defined Message Shall consist of at least one Vendor Data Object (VDO), the VDM Header, and May 
contain up to a maximum of six additional VDOs.
To ensure vendor uniqueness of Vendor_Defined Messages, all Vendor_Defined Messages Shall contain a Valid 
USB Standard or Vendor ID (SVID) allocated by USB-IF in the VDM Header.
Two types of Vendor_Defined Messages are defined: Structured VDMs and Unstructured VDMs. A Structured VDM 
defines an extensible structure designed to support Modal Operation. An Unstructured VDM does not define any 
structure and Messages May be created in any manner that the vendor chooses.
Vendor_Defined Messages Shall Not be used for direct power Negotiation. They May however be used to alter 
Local Policy, affecting what is offered or consumed via the normal PD Messages.
The Message format Shall be as shown in Figure 6.15, "Vendor Defined Message".
Figure 6.15 Vendor Defined Message
The VDM Header Shall be the first 4-byte object in a Vendor Defined Message. The VDM Header provides Command 
space to allow vendors to customize Messages for their own purposes. Additionally, vendors May make use of the 
Commands in a Structured VDM.
The fields in the VDM Header for an Unstructured VDM, when the VDM Type Bit is set to zero, Shall be as defined 
in Table 6.28, "Unstructured VDM Header". The fields in the VDM Header for a Structured VDM, when the VDM Type 
Bit is set to one Shall be as defined in Table 6.29, "Structured VDM Header".
Both Unstructured VDMs and Structured VDMs Shall only be sent and received after an Explicit Contract has been 
established. The only exception to this is the Discover Identity Command which May be sent by Source when a 
Default Contract or an Implicit Contract (in place after Attach, a Power Role Swap or Fast Role Swap) is in place in 
order to discover Cable Capabilities (see SSection 8.3.3.25.3, "Source Startup Structured VDM Discover Identity of a 
Cable Plug State Diagram").
6.4.4.1
  Unstructured VDM
The Unstructured VDM does not define the contents of bits B14…0 in the VDM Header. Their definition and use are 
the sole responsibility of the vendor indicated by the VID. The Port Partners and Cable Plugs Shall exit any states 
entered using an Unstructured VDM when a Hard Reset appears on PD.
The following rules apply to the use of Unstructured VDM Messages:

Unstructured VDMs Shall only be used when an Explicit Contract is in place.

Prior to establishing an Explicit Contract Unstructured VDMs Shall Not be sent and Shall be Ignored if 
received.

Only the DFP Shall be an Initiator of Unstructured VDMs.

Only the UFP or a Cable Plug Shall be a Responder to Unstructured VDM.

Unstructured VDMs Shall Not be initiated or responded to under any other circumstances.
Header
No. of Data Objects = 1-7
VDM Header
0-6 VDOs
