Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 133
The DFP (Host), UFP (Device) Data Roles and Source of VBUS Shall remain unchanged as well as the Rp/Rd resistors 
on the CC wire during the VCONN Swap process.
VCONN Shall be continually sourced during the VCONN Swap process to maintain power to the Cable Plug(s) i.e., make 
before break.
Before communicating with a Cable Plug a Port Shall ensure that it is the VCONN Source and that the Cable Plugs are 
powered, by performing a VCONN Swap if necessary. Since it cannot be guaranteed that the present VCONN Source is 
supplying VCONN, the only means to ensure that the Cable Plugs are powered is for a Port wishing to communicate 
with a Cable Plug to become the VCONN Source. If a Not_Supported Message is returned in response to the 
VCONN_Swap Message, then the Port is allowed to become the VCONN Source until a Hard Reset or Detach.
A VCONN Source that is also a Source can attempt to send a Discover Identity Command using SOP’ to a Cable Plug 
prior to the establishment of the First Explicit Contract.
Note:
Even when it is presently the VCONN Source, the Sink is not permitted to initiate an AMS with a Cable Plug 
unless Rp is set to SinkTxOK (see Section 6.9, "Accept, Reject and Wait").
6.3.12
  Wait Message
The Wait Message is a Valid response to one of the following Messages:

It Shall be sent to signal the Sink, in response to a Request Message in SPR Mode during Negotiation, to 
indicate that the Source is currently unable to meet the request.

It Shall be sent to signal the Sink, in response to a EPR_Request Message in EPR Mode during 
Negotiation, to indicate that the Source is currently unable to meet the request.

It Shall be sent by the recipient of a PR_Swap Message to indicate it is currently unable to do a Power 
Role Swap.

It Shall be sent by the recipient of a DR_Swap Message to indicate it is currently unable to do a Data Role 
Swap.

It Shall be sent by the recipient of a VCONN_Swap Message that is not presently the VCONN Source to 
indicate it is currently unable to do a VCONN Swap.

It Shall be sent by the recipient of an Enter_USB Message to indicate it is currently unable to enter the 
requested USB Mode.
The Wait Message Shall be sent within tReceiverResponse of the receipt of the last bit of the Message (see Section 
6.9, "Accept, Reject and Wait").
6.3.12.1
  Wait in response to a Request Message
The Wait Message allows the Source time to recover the power it requires to meet the request, e.g., through Re-
negotiation with other Sinks or an upstream Source. A Source Should only send a Wait Message in response to a 
Request Message when an Explicit Contract exists between the Port Partners.
The Sink is allowed to repeat the Request Message using the SinkRequestTimer and Shall ensure that there is 
tSinkRequest after receiving the Wait Message before sending another Request Message.
6.3.12.2
  Wait in response to a PR_Swap Message
The Wait Message is used when responding to a PR_Swap Message to indicate that a Power Role Swap might be 
possible in the future. This can occur in any case where the device receiving the PR_Swap Message needs to 
evaluate the request further e.g., by requesting Sink Capabilities from the originator of the PR_Swap Message. Once 
it has completed this evaluation one of the Port Partners Should initiate the Power Role Swap process again by 
sending a PR_Swap Message.
The Wait Message is also used where a Hub is operating in hybrid mode when a request cannot be satisfied (see 
[UCSI]). 
