Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 47
PDUSB Hub
A port expander USB Device with a UFP and one or more DFPs which is PD Capable on at least 
one of its Ports. A PDUSB Hub is only addressed by SOP Packets.
A self-powered PDUSB Hub is treated as a USB Type-C Multi-Port Charger.
PDUSB Peripheral
A USB Device with a PD Capable UFP which is not a PDUSB Hub. A PDUSB Peripheral is only 
addressed by SOP Packets.
PE
See Policy Engine.
Peripheral
A physical entity that is Attached to a USB cable and is currently operating as a USB Device.
PHY Layer
The Physical Layer responsible for sending and receiving Messages across the USB Type-C CC 
wire between a Port Pair.
Policy
Policy defines the behavior of PD Capable parts of the system and defines the Capabilities it 
Advertises, requests made to (re)Negotiate power and the responses made to requests received.
Policy Engine
The Policy Engine interprets the Device Policy Manager’s input to implement Policy for a given 
Port and directs the Protocol Layer to send appropriate Messages.
Port
An interface typically exposed through a receptacle, or via a plug on the end of a hard-wired 
captive cable. USB Power Delivery defines the interaction between a Port Pair. 
Port Pair
Two Attached PD Capable Ports.
Port Partner
A Contract is Negotiated between a Port Pair connected by a USB cable. These ports are known 
as Port Partners.
Power Conductor
The wire that delivers power from the Source to Sink. For example, USB’s VBUS.
Power Consumer
See Consumer.
Power Data Object
Data Object used to expose a Source Port’s or Sink Port’s power Capabilities as part of a 
Source_Capabilities / EPR_Source_Capabilities or Sink_Capabilities / EPR_Sink_Capabilities 
Message respectively. Fixed Supply, Variable Supply and Battery Supply Power Data Objects are 
defined; SPR Mode uses all four while EPR Mode uses only Fixed Supply and AVS PDOs.
Power Delivery Mode
Operation after a Contract has initially been established between a Port Pair. This Mode persists 
during normal Power Delivery operation, including after a Power Delivery Mode. Power Delivery 
Mode can only be exited by Detaching the Ports, applying a Hard Reset or by the Source removing 
power (except when the Initial Source removes power from VBUS during the Power Role Swap 
procedure).
Power Provider
See Provider.
Power Role
A Port Partner will be in one of two Power Roles; either Source or Sink.
Power Role Swap
Process of exchanging the Source and Sink Power Roles between Port Partners.
Power Rules
Define voltages and current ranges that are offered by compliant USB Power Delivery Sources 
and used by a USB Power Delivery Sink for a given value of PDP Rating. See Section 10, "Power 
Rules".
PPS
See Programmable Power Supply.
PPS Mode
An SPR Source, currently operating as an PPS, is said to be operating in PPS Mode.
Preamble
Start of a transmission which is used to enable the receiver to lock onto the carrier. The 
Preamble consists of a 64-bit sequence of alternating 0s and 1s starting with a "0" and ending 
with a "1" which is not 4b5b encoded.
Product Type
Product categorization returned as part of the Discover Identity Command.
Product Type VDO
VDO identifying a certain Product Type in the ID Header VDO of a Discover Identity Command.
Product VDO
The Product VDO contains identity information relating to the product. 
Programmable Power 
Supply
A power supply, operating in SPR Mode, whose output voltage can be programmatically adjusted 
in small increments over its Advertised range and has a programmable output current fold back 
(note that the SPR AVS and EPR AVS does not).The Capabilities are exposed by the SPR 
Programmable Power Supply APDO (see Section 6.4.1.2.4, "Augmented Power Data Object 
(APDO)").
Protocol Error
An unexpected Message during an Atomic Message Sequence. A Protocol Error during an AMS will 
result in either a Soft Reset or a Hard Reset.
Table 1.4  Terms and Abbreviations (Continued)
Term
Description
