Page 78
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
4
 Electrical Requirements 
This chapter covers the platform's electrical requirements for implementing USB Power Delivery. 
4.1
  Interoperability with other USB Specifications
USB Power Delivery May be implemented alongside the [USB 2.0], [USB 3.2], [USB4], [USBBC 1.2] and [USB Type-
C 2.4] (USB Type-C) specifications. In the case where a Device requests power via [USBBC 1.2] and then the USB 
Power Delivery Specification, it Shall follow the USB Power Delivery Specification until the Port Pair is Detached 
or there is a Hard Reset. If the USB Power Delivery connection is lost, the Port Shall return to its default state, see 
Section 6.8.3, "Hard Reset".
4.2
  Dead Battery Detection / Unpowered Port Detection
Dead Battery/unpowered operation is when a USB Device needs to provide power to a USB Host under the 
circumstances where the USB Host:

Has a Dead Battery that requires charging or

Has lost its power source or

Does not have a power source or

Does not want to provide power.
Dead Battery charging operation for connections between USB Type-C connectors is defined in [USB Type-C 2.4].
4.3
  Cable IR Ground Drop (IR Drop)
Every PD Sink Port capable of USB Communication can be susceptible to unreliable USB Communication if the 
voltage drop across ground falls outside of the acceptable common mode range for the USB Hi-Speed transceivers 
data lines due to excessive current draw. Certified USB cabling is specified such that such errors don't typically 
occur (See [USB Type-C 2.4]).
4.4
  Cable Type Detection
Standard USB Type-C® cable assemblies are rated for PD voltages higher than vSafe5V and current levels of at least 
3A (See [USB Type-C 2.4]). The Source Shall limit maximum Capabilities it offers so as not to exceed the Capabilities 
of the type of cabling detected.
Sources capable of offering more than 3A Shall detect the type of Attached cable and limit the Capabilities they offer 
based on the current carrying capability of the cable determined by the Cable Capabilities determined using the 
Discover Identity Command (see Section 6.4.4.3.1, "Discover Identity") sent using SOP’ Communication (see Section 
2.4, "SOP* Communication") to the Cable Plug. The Cable VDO returned as part of the Discover Identity Command 
details the maximum current and voltage values that Shall be Negotiated for a given cable as part of an Explicit 
Contract.
The Cable Discovery process is usually run when the Source is powered up, after a Power Role Swap or Fast Role 
Swap or when power is applied to a Sink. The method used to detect these events Shall meet the following 
requirements:

Sources Shall run the Cable Discovery process prior to the Source sending Source_Capabilities Messag-
es offering currents in excess of 3A and/or voltages in excess of 20V.

Sinks with USB Type-C connectors Shall select Capabilities from the offered Source Capabilities assum-
ing that the Source has already determined the Capabilities of the cable.

Sinks with the Dual-Role Power bit set, Shall respond to a Get_Source_Cap Message by declaring their 
full Source Capabilities, without limiting them based on the cable's Capabilities. 
