Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 71
The Protocol Layer in the Sink, when the Policy Engine indicates that an AMS is being initiated, will wait for the Rp 
value to be set to SinkTxOK before initiating the AMS by sending the first Message in the sequence.
2.6.3.3
  PHY Layer
The PHY Layer in the Source will set the Rp value to either SinkTxOK or SinkTxNG as directed by the Protocol Layer. 
The PHY Layer in the Sink will detect the present Rp value and inform the Protocol Layer.
2.6.4
  Power supply
2.6.4.1
  Source
Each Provider will contain one or more power sources that are shared between one or more Ports. These power 
sources are controlled by the Local Policy. Source Ports start up in USB Type-C Operation where the Port applies 
vSafe0V on VBUS and returns to this state on Detach or after a Hard Reset. When the Source detects Attach events it 
transitions its output to vSafe5V.
2.6.4.2
  Sink
Consumers are assumed to have one Sink connected to a Port. This Sink is controlled by Local Policy. Sinks start up 
in USB Default Operation where the Port can operate at vSafe5V with USB default specified current levels and 
return to this state on Detach or after a Hard Reset.
2.6.4.3
  Dual-Role Power Ports
Dual-Role Power Ports have the ability to operate as either a Source or a Sink and to swap between the two Power 
Roles using Power Role Swap or Fast Role Swap.
2.6.4.4
  Dead Battery or Lost Power Detection
[USB Type-C 2.4] defines mechanisms intended to communicate with and to charge a Sink or DRP with a Dead 
Battery. 
2.6.4.5
  VCONN Source
The Source Port at Attach, is also the VCONN Source. The responsibility for sourcing VCONN can be swapped between 
the Source Ports and Sink Ports in a make before break fashion to ensure that the Cable Plugs are continuously 
powered. To ensure reliable communication with the Cable Plugs only the Port that is the VCONN Source is permitted 
to communicate with the Cable Plugs.
Note:
Prior to a Power Role Swap, Data Role Swap or Fast Role Swap each new Source Port needs to ensure that 
it is the VCONN Source if it needs to communicate with the Cable Plugs after the swap.
2.6.5
  DFP/UFP
2.6.5.1
  Downstream Facing Port (DFP)
The Downstream Facing Port or DFP is equivalent in the USB topology to the Port a USB Device is Attached to. The 
DFP will also correspond to the USB Host but only if USB Communication is supported while acting as a DFP. 
Products such as Chargers can be a DFP while not having USB Communication capability. Only the DFP is allowed 
to control Alternate Mode operation.
2.6.5.2
  Upstream Facing Port (UFP)
The Upstream Facing Port or UFP is equivalent in the USB topology to the Port on a USB Device that is connected to 
the USB Host or USB Hub's DFP. The UFP will also correspond to the USB Device but only if USB Communication is 
supported while acting as a UFP. Products which charge can be a UFP while not having USB Communication 
capability.
