Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 219
cycle defined as Peak Current1, Peak Current2 and Peak Current3 that the Source supports. A Source May offer 
no Peak Current capability. A Source Shall populate unused Peak Current bit fields with zero.
The Bit Fields within Peak Current1, Peak Current2 and Peak Current3 contain the following subfields:

Percentage Overload

Shall be the maximum peak current reported in 10% increments as a percentage of the Negotiated 
operating current (IoC) offered by the Source. Values higher than 25 (11001b) are clipped to 250%.

Overload Period

Shall be the minimum rolling average time window in 20ms increments, where a value of 20ms is 
recommended.

Duty Cycle

Shall be the maximum percentage of overload period reported in 5% increments. The values 
Should be 5%, 10% and 50% for PeakCurrent1, PeakCurrent2, and PeakCurrent3, respectively.

VBUS Droop

Shall be set to one to indicate there is an additional 5% voltage droop on VBUS when the overload 
conditions occur as defined by vSrcPeak. However, it is recommended that the Source Should pro-
vide VBUS in the range of vSrcNew when overload conditions occur and set this bit to zero.
6.5.1.11
  Touch Temp Field
The Touch Temp field Shall report the IEC standard used to determine the surface temperature of the Source's 
enclosure. Safety limits for the Source's touch temperature are set in applicable product safety standards (e.g., [IEC 
60950-1] or [IEC 62368-1]). The Source May report when its touch temperature performance conforms to the TS1 
or TS2 limits described in [IEC 62368-1].
6.5.1.12
  Source Inputs Field
The Source Inputs field Shall identify the possible inputs that provide power to the Source:

When bit 0 is set, the Source can be sourced by an external power supply.

When bits 0 and 1 are set, the Source can be sourced by an external power supply which is assumed to 
be effectively "infinite" i.e., it won't run down over time.

When bit 2 is set the Source can be sourced by an internal Battery.
Note:
Some Sources are only powered by a Battery (e.g., an automobile) rather than the more common AC 
Supply. 
Note:
Bit 2 May be set independently of bits 0 and 1.
6.5.1.13
  Number of Batteries/Battery Slots Field
The Number of Batteries/Battery Slots field Shall report the number of Fixed Batteries and Hot Swappable 
Battery Slots the Source supports. This field Shall independently report the number of Battery Slots and the 
number of Fixed Batteries.
A Source Shall have no more than 4 Fixed Batteries and no more than 4 Battery Slots. 
Fixed Batteries Shall be numbered consecutively from 0 to 3. The number assigned to a given Fixed Battery Shall 
Not change between Attach and Detach. 
Battery Slots Shall be numbered consecutively from 4 to 7. The number assigned to a given Battery Slot Shall Not 
change between Attach and Detach.
