Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 91
5.7
  Collision Avoidance
The PHY Layer Shall monitor the channel for data transmission and only initiate transmissions when CC is Idle. If 
the bus Idle condition is present, it Shall be considered safe to start a transmission provided the conditions detailed 
in Section 5.8.5.4, "Inter-Frame Gap" are met. The bus Idle condition Shall be checked immediately prior to 
transmission. If transmission cannot be initiated, then the Packet Shall be Discarded. If the Packet is Discarded 
because CC is not Idle, the PHY Layer Shall signal to the Protocol Layer that it has Discarded the Message as soon 
as CC becomes Idle. See Section 5.8.6.1, "Definition of Idle" for the definition of Idle CC.
In addition, during an Explicit Contract, the PHY Layer Shall control the Rp resistor value to avoid collisions 
between Source and Sink transmissions. The Source Shall set an Rp value corresponding to a current of 3A 
(SinkTxOK) to indicate to the Sink that it May initiate an AMS. The Source Shall set an Rp value corresponding to a 
current of 1.5A (SinkTxNG) this Shall indicate to the Sink that it Shall Not initiate an AMS and Shall only respond 
to Messages as part of an AMS. See [USB Type-C 2.4] (USB Type-C) for details of the corresponding Rp values. During 
the Implicit Contract that precedes an Explicit Contract (including Power Role Swap and Fast Role Swap) the Rp 
resistor value is used to specify USB Type-C current and is not used for Collision Avoidance.
Table 5.13, "Rp values used for Collision Avoidance" details the Rp values that Shall be used by the Source to control 
Sink initiation of an AMS.
See also Section 6.6.16, "Collision Avoidance Timers" and Section 6.10, "Collision Avoidance".
Table 5.13  Rp values used for Collision Avoidance
Source Rp Parameter
Description
Sink Operation
Source Operation
1.5A@5V
SinkTxNG
Sink Transmit “No Go,”
The Sink Shall Not initiate 
an AMS once tSinkDelay has 
elapsed after SinkTxNG is 
asserted.
Source can initiate an AMS 
tSinkTx after setting Rp to 
this value.
3A@5V
SinkTxOK
Sink Transmit “Ok”
Sink can initiate an AMS.
Source cannot initiate an 
AMS while it has this value 
set.
