Page 532
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Table 8.58, "Steps for Sink initiated Hard Reset" below provides a detailed explanation of what happens at each 
labeled step in Figure 8.31, "Sink Initiated Hard Reset" above.
Table 8.58  Steps for Sink initiated Hard Reset
Step
Source
Sink
1
The Policy Engine directs the Protocol Layer to 
generate Hard Reset Signaling. 
The Policy Engine requests the DPM to reset the power 
supply to USB Default Operation. The Policy Engine 
requests the DPM to reset the Port Data Role to UFP 
and to turn off VCONN if this is on.
2
Protocol Layer resets MessageIDCounter, stored copy 
of MessageID and RetryCounter.
Protocol Layer requests the PHY Layer send Hard Reset 
Signaling.
3
PHY Layer receives the Hard Reset Signaling and 
disables the PHY Layer communications channel for 
transmission and reception.
PHY Layer sends the Hard Reset Signaling and then 
disables the PHY Layer communications channel for 
transmission and reception.
4
PHY Layer informs the Protocol Layer of the Hard 
Reset.
Protocol Layer resets MessageIDCounter, stored copy 
of MessageID and RetryCounter.
5
The Protocol Layer Informs the Policy Engine of the 
Hard Reset.
The Policy Engine starts the NoResponseTimer and 
requests the DPM to reset the Power Sink to USB Default 
Operation. The Policy Engine requests the DPM to 
reset the Port Data Role to DFP and to turn off VCONN if 
this is on.
6
The Power Sink returns to USB Default Operation.
The Policy Engine informs the Protocol Layer that the 
Power Sink has been reset.
7
The Protocol Layer informs the PHY Layer that the Hard 
Reset is complete.
The PHY Layer enables the PHY Layer communications 
channel for transmission and reception.
8
The power supply is reset to USB Default Operation and 
VCONN is turned on.
The Policy Engine informs the Protocol Layer that the 
power supply has been reset.
9
The Protocol Layer informs the PHY Layer that the Hard 
Reset is complete. The PHY Layer enables the PHY Layer 
communications channel for transmission and 
reception.
The reset is complete and protocol communication can restart.
10
Policy Engine directs the Protocol Layer to send a 
Source_Capabilities Message that represents the 
power supply’s present capabilities.
11
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
12
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the 
Source_Capabilities Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the Source_Capabilities Message 
and checks the CRC to verify the Message.
