Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 337
7.2.9
  Robust Sink Operation 
7.2.9.1
  Sink Bulk Capacitance Discharge at Detach
When a Source is Detached from a Sink, the Sink Shall continue to draw power from its input bulk capacitance until 
VBUS is discharged to vSafe5V or lower by no longer than tSafe5V from the Detach event. This safe Sink 
requirement Shall apply to all Sinks operating with a Negotiated VBUS level greater than vSafe5V and Shall apply 
during all low power and high-power operating modes of the Sink.
 If the Detach is detected during a Sink low power state, such as USB Suspend, the Sink can then draw as much 
power as needed from its bulk capacitance since a Source is no longer Attached. In order to achieve a successful 
Detach detect based on VBUS voltage level droop, the Sink power consumption Shall be high enough so that VBUS 
will decay below vSrcValid(min) well within tSafe5V after the Source bulk capacitance is removed due to the 
Detach. Once adequate VBUS droop has been achieved, a discharge circuit can be enabled to meet the safe Sink 
requirement.
 To illustrate the point, the following set of Sink conditions will not meet the safe Sink requirement without 
additional discharge circuitry:

Negotiated VBUS = 20V.

Maximum allowable supplied VBUS voltage = 21.55V.

Maximum bulk capacitance = 30µF.

Power consumption at Detach = 12.5mW.
When the Detach occurs (hence removal of the Source bulk capacitance) the 12.5mW power consumption will 
draw down the VBUS voltage from the worst-case maximum level of 21.55V to 17V in approximately 205ms. At this 
point, with VBUS well below vSrcValid (min) an approximate 100mW discharge circuit can be enabled to increase 
the rate of Sink bulk capacitance discharge and meet the safe Sink requirement. The power level of the discharge 
circuit is dependent on how much time is left to discharge the remaining voltage on the Sink bulk capacitance. If a 
Sink has the ability to detect the Detach in a different manner and in much less time than tSafe5V, then this different 
manner of detection can be used to enable a discharge circuit, allowing even lower power dissipation during low 
power modes such as USB Suspend.
 In most applications, the safe Sink requirement will limit the maximum Sink bulk capacitance well below the 
cSnkBulkPd limit. A Detach occurring during Sink high power operating modes must quickly discharge the Sink 
bulk capacitance to vSafe5V or lower as long as the Sink continues to draw adequate power until VBUS has decayed 
to vSafe5V or lower.
7.2.9.2
  Input Over Voltage Protection
Sinks Shall implement input Over-Voltage Protection (OVP) to prevent damage from input voltage that exceeds the 
voltage handling capability of the Sink. The definition of voltage handling capability is left to the discretion of the 
Sink implementation. The over voltage response of Sinks Shall Not interfere with normal PD operation and Shall 
account for vSrcNew, vSrcValid or vPpsNew, vPpsValid as determined by the Negotiated VBUS value. SPR Sinks 
Should tolerate input voltages as high as vSprMax and Shall meet applicable safety requirements if vSprMax is 
exceeded. Likewise, EPR Sinks Should tolerate input voltages as high as vEprMax and Shall meet applicable safety 
requirements if vEprMax is exceeded.
Sinks Should attempt to send Hard Reset Signaling when OVP engages followed by an Alert Message indicating an 
OVP event once an Explicit Contract has been established. The OVP response May engage at either the Port or 
system level. Systems or ports that have engaged OVP Shall resume USB Default Operation when the Source has re-
established vSafe5V on VBUS.
The Sink Shall be able to Re-negotiate with the Source after resuming USB Default Operation. The decision of how 
to respond to Re-negotiation after an OVP event is left to the discretion of the Sink implementation.
The Sink Shall prevent continual system or Port cycling if OVP continues to engage after initially resuming either 
USB Default Operation or Re-negotiation. Latching off the Port or system is an acceptable response to recurring over 
voltage.
