Page 34
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
1
 Introduction
USB has evolved from a data interface capable of supplying limited power to a primary provider of power with a 
data interface. Today many devices charge or get their power from USB Ports contained in laptops, cars, aircraft or 
even wall sockets. USB has become a ubiquitous power socket for many small devices such as cell phones and other 
hand-held devices. Users need USB to fulfill their requirements not only in terms of data but also to provide power 
to, or charge, their devices simply, often without the need to load a driver, in order to carry out “traditional” USB 
functions.
There are, however, still many devices which either require an additional power connection to the wall, or exceed 
the USB default current in order to operate. Increasingly, international regulations require better energy 
management due to ecological and practical concerns relating to the availability of power. Regulations limit the 
amount of power available from the wall which has led to a pressing need to optimize power usage. The USB Power 
Delivery Specification has the potential to minimize waste as it becomes a standard for charging devices that are 
not satisfied by [USBBC 1.2] or [USB Type-C 2.4].
Wider usage of wireless solutions is an attempt to remove data cabling but the need for “tethered” charging 
remains. In addition, industrial design requirements drive wired connectivity to do much more over the same 
connector.
USB Power Delivery is designed to enable the maximum functionality of USB by providing more flexible power 
delivery along with data over a single cable. Its aim is to operate with and build on the existing USB ecosystem; 
increasing power levels from existing USB standards, for example [USBBC 1.2], enabling new higher power use 
cases such as USB powered Hard Disk Drives (HDDs), laptops and monitors.
With USB Power Delivery the power direction is no longer fixed. This enables the product with the power (USB 
Host or Peripheral) to provide the power. For example, a display with a supply from the wall can power, or charge, 
a laptop. Alternatively, USB Chargers are able to supply power to laptops and other Battery powered devices 
through their, traditional power providing, USB Ports.
USB Power Delivery enables Hubs (including Hubs embedded in other devices such as docks or monitors) to 
become the means to optimize power management across multiple peripherals by allowing each device to take 
only the power it requires, and to get more power when required for a given application. Optionally the Hubs can 
communicate with the PC to enable even more intelligent and flexible management of power either automatically 
or with some level of user intervention.
USB Power Delivery allows low power cases such as headsets to Negotiate for only the power they require. This 
provides a simple solution that enables USB devices to operate at their optimal power levels. 
The Power Delivery Specification, in addition to providing mechanisms to Negotiate power also can be used as a 
side-band channel for standard and vendor defined messaging. The specification enables discovery of cable 
Capabilities such as supported speeds and current levels. Power Delivery enables alternative modes of operation 
by providing the mechanisms to discover, enter and exit Modes such as EPR Mode, USB4® Mode or Alternate 
Modes.
1.1
  Overview
This specification defines how USB Devices can Negotiate for more current and/or higher or lower voltages over 
the USB cable (using the USB Type-C® CC wire as the communications channel) than are defined in the [USB 2.0], 
[USB 3.2], [USB4], [USB Type-C 2.4] or [USBBC 1.2] specifications. It allows Devices with greater power 
requirements than can be met with today's specification to get the power they require to operate from VBUS and 
Negotiate with external power sources (e.g., Chargers).
In addition, it allows a Source and Sink to swap Power Roles such that a USB Device could supply power to the USB 
Host. For example, a display could supply power to a laptop to operate or charge its Battery. This specification also 
adds a mechanism to swap the Data Roles such that the upstream facing Port becomes the downstream facing Port 
and vice versa. It also enables a swap of the end supplying VCONN to a powered cable.
The USB Power Delivery Specification is guided by the following principles:

Works seamlessly with legacy USB Devices.
