Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 561
Table 8.66, "Steps for a Successful Fast Role Swap Sequence" below provides a detailed explanation of what happens 
at each labeled step in Figure 8.39, "Successful Fast Role Swap Sequence" above.
Table 8.66  Steps for a Successful Fast Role Swap Sequence
Step
Initial Sink Port
Initial Source Port
1
The Port has Port Power Role set to Sink with the Rd 
pull down on its CC wire.
The DPM detects Fast Swap on the CC wire and tells the 
power supply to stop sinking current. 
The Policy Engine directs the Protocol Layer to send an 
FR_Swap Message within tFRSwapInit of detecting the 
Fast Swap signal.
The Port has Port Power Role set to Source and the Rp 
pull up on its CC wire.
The DPM tells the Power Supply to stop sourcing power 
and switch to Sink operation.
The DPM signals Fast Swap on the CC wire by driving CC 
to ground with a resistance of less than rFRSwapTx for 
at least tFRSwapTx.
2
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
3
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the FR_Swap 
Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the FR_Swap Message and checks 
the CRC to verify the Message.
4
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the PR_Swap 
Message to the Protocol Layer.
5
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received FR_Swap 
Message information to the Policy Engine that 
consumes it.
6
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
7
PHY Layer receives the GoodCRC Message and checks 
the CRC to verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the GoodCRC 
Message.
8
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the GoodCRC 
Message to the Protocol Layer.
9
Protocol Layer verifies and increments the 
MessageIDCounter and stops CRCReceiveTimer. 
Protocol Layer informs the Policy Engine that the 
FR_Swap Message was successfully sent. Policy Engine 
starts SenderResponseTimer.
10
Policy Engine evaluates the PR_Swap Message sent by 
the Sink and decides that it is able and willing to do the 
Power Role Swap. It tells the Protocol Layer to form an 
Accept Message.
11
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
12
PHY Layer receives the Message and compares the CRC 
it calculated with the one sent to verify the Accept 
Message.
PHY Layer appends a CRC and sends the Accept Message. 
Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
13
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received PR_Swap 
Message information to the Policy Engine that 
consumes it.
14
The Policy Engine stops the SenderResponseTimer, 
starts the PSSourceOffTimer.
