Page 52
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
1.7
  Parameter Values
The parameters in this specification are expressed in terms of absolute values. For details of how each parameter 
is measured in compliance please see [USBPDCompliance].
1.8
  Changes from Revision 3.0 
Extended Power Range (EPR) including Adjustable Voltage Supply (AVS) has been added.
1.9
  Compatibility with Revision 2.0
This Revision of the USB Power Delivery specification is designed to be fully inter-operable with [USBPD 2.0] 
systems using BMC Signaling over the [USB Type-C 2.4] connector and to be compatible with Revision 2.0 
hardware.
Please see Section 2.3, "USB Power Delivery Capable Devices" for more details of the mechanisms defined to enable 
compatibility. 
VCONN Powered USB Device
A captive cable USB Device that can be powered by either VCONN or VBUS as defined in [USB Type-
C 2.4]. 
A VPD is a captive cable USB Device that can be powered by either VCONN or VBUS and only 
responds to SOP’ Communication as defined in the Tables in Section 6.12, "State behavior"). It 
only responds to Messages sent with a Specification Revision of at least Revision 3.x. A VPD is not 
allowed to support Alternate Modes.
The term VPD refers to either a VPD or a CT-VPD with no Charger connected.
VCONN Source
The USB Type-C Port responsible for sourcing VCONN.
VCONN Swap
Process of exchanging the VCONN Source between Port Partners.
VDEM
See Vendor Defined Extended Message.
VDM
See Vendor Defined Message.
VDM Header
The first Data Object following the Message Header in a Vendor Defined Message. The VDM 
Header contains the SVID relating to the VDM being sent and provides information relating to 
the Command in the case of a Structured VDM (see Section 6.4.4, "Vendor Defined Message").
VDO
See Vendor Data Object.
Vendor Data Object
Data Object used to send Vendor specific information as part of a Message.
Vendor Defined Extended 
Message
PD Extended Message defined for vendor/standards usage. A VDEM does not define any 
structure and Messages can be created in any manner that the vendor chooses.
Vendor Defined Message
PD Data Message defined for vendor/standards usage. These are further partitioned into 
Structured Vendor Defined Messages, where Commands are defined in this specification, and 
Unstructured Vendor Defined Messages which are entirely vendor defined (see Section 6.4.4, 
"Vendor Defined Message").
Vendor ID
16-bit unsigned value assigned by the USB-IF to a given Vendor.
Version
A minor release of the USB Power Delivery specification associated with a particular Revision.
Version numbers are also defined in VDMs.
VI
Same as power (i.e., voltage * current = power)
VID
See Vendor ID.
VPD
See VCONN Powered USB Device.
Table 1.4  Terms and Abbreviations (Continued)
Term
Description
