Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 243
6.5.13.15
  SPR Sink Maximum PDP 
The SPR Sink Maximum PDP field Shall contain the highest PDP the Sink will ever request under any operating 
condition, rounded up to the next integer, including charging its Battery if present. The SPR Sink Maximum PDP 
field Shall Not be less than the SPR Sink Operational PDP field, but May be the same. The value is used by the 
Source to determine the maximum amount of power it has to budget for the Attached Sink. If the Sink is EPR Capable 
and is unable to operate at PDPs less than 100W, it Shall set this field to the minimum power to sustain PD 
communication.
If the Sink is self-powered, such that it doesn't need power from a Source, then it Shall set this field to zero.
6.5.13.16
  EPR Sink Minimum PDP 
The EPR Sink Minimum PDP field Shall contain the Source PDP needed by an EPR Sink, rounded up to the next 
integer, to operate at its lowest level of functionality without requiring power from its Battery, if present. Battery 
charging may be an opportunistic feature, however this PDP Should be designed for basic functionality, not for 
charging. The EPR Sink Minimum PDP field Shall be less than or equal to the EPR Sink Operational PDP field 
value. The value is used by the Source to determine whether or not it has sufficient power to minimally support the 
Attached Sink. If the Sink is not EPR Capable, or if the Sink is self-powered, such that it doesn't need power from a 
Source, this field Shall be set to zero.
The EPR Sink Minimum PDP is used to indicate to Shared Capacity Chargers the power that Should be delivered 
to the Sink to guarantee at least basic functionality for the end user.
Possible examples of EPR Sink Minimum PDP could be:

The power required to have basic functionality by a Batteryless Sink,

On a device with a Battery, it can power the minimum functionality of the device.
Note:
EPR Sink Minimum PDP can be the same as its SPR Sink Minimum PDP.
6.5.13.17
  EPR Sink Operational PDP 
The EPR Sink Operational PDP field Shall contain the Source PDP that the manufacturer recommends for the 
normal functionality of the Sink, rounded up to the next integer. This corresponds to the PDP Rating of EPR Sources 
that the Sink is designed to operate with (See Section 10.3.2, "Normative Sink Rules"). The EPR Sink Operational 
PDP Shall be sufficient to operate all the Sink's functional modes normally AND charge the Sink's Battery if present. 
For Sinks with a Battery(s), it Shall correspond to the PDP Rating of the Charger shipped with the EPR Sink or the 
recommended Charger's PDP Rating. If the Sink is not EPR Capable, or if the Sink is self-powered, such that it doesn't 
need power from a Source, this field Shall be set to zero.
The EPR Sink Operational PDP is used to indicate to Shared Capacity Chargers that at this power level the user is 
not expected to receive any performance warning related to the power being supplied to the Sink.
6.5.13.18
  EPR Sink Maximum PDP 
The EPR Sink Maximum PDP field Shall be highest PDP the EPR Sink will ever request under any operating 
condition, rounded up to the next integer, including charging its Battery if present. The EPR Sink Maximum PDP 
field Shall Not be less than the EPR Sink Operational PDP, but May be the same. The value is used by the Source 
to determine the maximum amount of power it has to budget for the Attached Sink. If the Sink is not EPR Capable, 
or if the Sink is self-powered, such that it doesn't need power from a Source, this field Shall be set to zero.
