Page 134
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
A Port that receives a Wait Message in response to a PR_Swap Message Shall wait tPRSwapWait after receiving 
the Wait Message before sending another PR_Swap Message.
6.3.12.3
  Wait in response to a DR_Swap Message
The Wait Message is used when responding to a DR_Swap Message to indicate that a Data Role Swap might be 
possible in the future. This can occur in any case where the device receiving the DR_Swap Message needs to 
evaluate the request further. Once it has completed this evaluation one of the Port Partners Should initiate the Data 
Role Swap process again by sending a DR_Swap Message.
A Port that receives a Wait Message in response to a DR_Swap Message Shall wait tDRSwapWait after receiving 
the Wait Message before sending another DR_Swap Message.
6.3.12.4
  Wait in response to a VCONN_Swap Message
The Wait Message is used when responding to a VCONN_Swap Message to indicate that a VCONN_Swap might be 
possible in the future. This can occur in any case where the device receiving the VCONN_Swap Message needs to 
evaluate the request further. Once it has completed this evaluation one of the Port Partners Should initiate the 
VCONN Swap process again by sending a VCONN_Swap Message.
A Port that receives a Wait Message in response to a VCONN_Swap Message Shall wait tVCONNSwapWait after 
receiving the Wait Message before sending another VCONN_Swap Message.
A Port that is currently the VCONN Source Shall respond with an Accept Message (rather than a Wait Message) if the 
Port Partner's Revision and Version, as reported in the Revision Message, is earlier than R3.2 V1.1. A Port Partner 
supporting an earlier Revision and Version will not expect a Wait Message and will generate a Soft Reset in response.
6.3.12.5
  Wait in response to an Enter_USB Message
The Wait Message is used, by the UFP, when responding to an Enter_USB Message to indicate that entering the 
requested USB Mode might be possible in the future. This can occur, for example, in any case where the UFP needs 
to Negotiate more power to enter the mode. Once the UFP has completed this the DFP Should initiate the Enter USB 
process again by sending an Enter_USB Message.
A DFP that receives a Wait Message in response to an Enter_USB Message Shall wait tEnterUSBWait after receiving 
the Wait Message before sending another Enter_USB Message.
6.3.13
  Soft Reset Message
A Soft_Reset Message May be initiated by either the Source or Sink to its Port Partner requesting a Soft Reset. The 
Soft_Reset Message Shall cause a Soft Reset of the connected Port Pair (see Section 6.8.1, "Soft Reset and Protocol 
Error"). If the Soft_Reset Message fails a Hard Reset Shall be initiated within tHardReset of the last 
CRCReceiveTimer expiring after nRetryCount retries have been completed.
A Soft_Reset Message is used to recover from Protocol Layer errors; putting the Message counters to a known state 
to regain Message synchronization. The Soft_Reset Message has no effect on the Source or Sink; that is the 
previously Negotiated direction. Voltage and current remain unchanged. Modal Operation is unaffected by Soft 
Reset. However after a Soft Reset has completed, an Explicit Contract Negotiation occurs, in order to re-establish PD 
Communication and to bring state operation for both Port Partners back to either the PE_SNK_Ready or 
PE_SRC_Ready states as appropriate (see Section 8.3.3.4, "SOP Soft Reset and Protocol Error State Diagrams").
A Soft_Reset Message May be sent by either the Source or Sink when there is a Message synchronization error. If 
the error is not corrected by the Soft Reset, Hard Reset Signaling Shall be issued (see Section 6.8.3, "Hard Reset").
A Soft_Reset Message Shall be targeted at a specific entity depending on the type of SOP* Packet used. Soft_Reset 
Messages sent using SOP Packets Shall Soft Reset the Port Partner only. Soft_Reset Messages sent using SOP’ Packet/
SOP’’ Packets Shall Soft Reset the corresponding Cable Plug only.
After a VCONN Swap the VCONN Source needs to reset the Cable Plug's Protocol Layer to ensure MessageID 
synchronization. If after a VCONN Swap the VCONN Source wants to communicate with a Cable Plug using SOP’ 
Packets, it Shall issue a Soft_Reset Message using a SOP’ Packet in order to reset the Cable Plug's Protocol Layer. If 
