Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 421
ensure that the user is informed of the condition. When another Port in the system could satisfy the Consumer's 
power requirements the user Should be directed to move the Device to the alternate Port.
In order to identify a more suitable Source Port for the Consumer the System Policy Manager Shall communicate 
with the Device Policy Manager in order to determine the Consumer's requirements. The Device Policy Manager 
Shall use a Get_Sink_Cap Message (see Section 6.3.8, "Get_Sink_Cap Message") to discover which power levels can 
be utilized by the Consumer.
8.2.6
  Use of "Unconstrained Power" bit with Batteries and AC 
supplies
The Device Policy Manager in a Provider or Consumer May monitor the status of any variable sources of power that 
could have an impact on its Capabilities as a Source such as Batteries and AC supplies and reflect this in the 
"Unconstrained Power" bit (see Section 6.4.1.2.1.3, "Unconstrained Power" and Section 6.4.1.3.1.3, "Unconstrained 
Power") provided as part of the Source_Capabilities or Sink_Capabilities Message (see Section 6.4.1, "Capabilities 
Message"). When monitored, and a USB interface is supported, the External Power status (see [UCSI]) and the 
Battery state (see Section 9.4.1, "GetBatteryStatus") Shall also be reported to the System Policy Manager using the 
USB interface.
8.2.6.1
  AC Supplies
The Unconstrained Power bit provided by Sources and Sinks (see Section 6.4.1.2.1.3, "Unconstrained Power" and 
Section 6.4.1.3.1.3, "Unconstrained Power") notifies a connected device that it is acceptable to use the Advertised 
power for charging as well as for what is needed for normal operation. A device that sets the Unconstrained Power 
bit has either an external source of power that is sufficient to adequately power the system while charging external 
devices or expects to charge external devices as a primary state of function (such as a battery pack).
In the case of the external power source, the power can either be from an AC Supply directly connected to the device 
or from an AC Supply connected to an Attached device, which is also getting unconstrained power from its power 
supply. The Unconstrained Power bit is in this way communicated through a PD system indicating that the origin 
of the power is from a single or multiple AC supplies, from a battery bank, or similar:

If the "Unconstrained Power" bit is set, then that power is originally sourced from an AC Supply.

Devices capable of consuming on multiple ports can only claim that they have "Unconstrained Power" 
for the power Advertised as a Provider Port if there is unconstrained power beyond that needed for nor-
mal operation coming from external supplies, (e.g., multiple AC supplies).

This concept applies as the power is routed through multiple Provider and Consumer tiers, so, as an ex-
ample. Power provided out of a monitor that is connected to a monitor that gets power from an AC Sup-
ply, will claim it has "Unconstrained Power" even though it is not directly connected to the AC Supply.
An example use case is a Tablet computer that is used with two USB A/V displays that are daisy chained (see Figure 
8.1, "Example of daisy chained displays"). The tablet and 1st display are not externally powered, (meaning, they 
have no source of power outside of USB PD). The 2nd display has an external supply Attached which could either 
be a USB PD based supply or some other form of external supply. When the displays are connected as shown, the 
power adapter Attached to the 2nd display is able to power both the 1st display and the tablet. In this case the 2nd 
display will indicate the presence of a sufficiently sized Charger to the 1st display, by setting its "Unconstrained 
Power" bit. The 1st display will then in turn assess and indicate the presence of the extra power to the tablet by 
setting its "Unconstrained Power" bit. Power is transmitted through the system to all devices, provided that there 
is sufficient power available from the external supply.
