Page 118
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Messages initiated by the Policy Engine, such as the PS_RDY Message sent to indicate that VBUS is ready, 
will have the Port Power Role field set to Source.
The Port Power Role field of a received Message Shall Not be verified by the receiver and Shall Not lead to Soft 
Reset, Hard Reset or Error Recovery if it is incorrect.
The Port Power Role field Shall only be defined for SOP Packets.
6.2.1.1.5
  Specification Revision
The Specification Revision field Shall be one of the following values (except 11b):

00b - Revision 1.0 (Deprecated)

01b - Revision 2.0

10b - Revision 3.x

11b - Reserved, Shall Not be used.
To ensure interoperability with existing PDUSB products, PDUSB products Shall support every PD Specification 
Revision starting from [USB 2.0] for SOP*; the only exception to this is a VPD which Shall Ignore Messages sent with 
PD Specification Revision 2.0 and earlier.
After a physical or logical (USB Type-C® Error Recovery) Attach, a Port discovers the common Specification Revision 
level between itself and its Port Partner and/or the Cable Plug(s), and uses this Specification Revision level until a 
Detach, Hard Reset or Error Recovery happens.
After detection of the Specification Revision to be used, all PD communications Shall comply completely with the 
relevant Revision of the PD specification.
The 2-bit Specification Revision field of a GoodCRC Message does not carry any meaning and Shall be considered 
as don't care by the recipient of the Message. The sender of a GoodCRC Message Shall set the Specification Revision 
field to 01b (Revision 2.0) when responding to a Message that contains 01b in the Specification Revision field of 
the Message Header. The sender of a GoodCRC Message May set the Specification Revision field to 01b or 10b when 
responding to a Message that contains 10b (Revision 3.x) in the Specification Revision field of the Message Header.
The Specification Revision field Shall apply to all SOP* Packet types. 
An Attach event or a Hard Reset Shall cause the detection of the applicable Specification Revision to be performed 
for both Ports and Cable Plugs according to the rules stated below:
When the Source Port first communicates with the Sink Port the Specification Revision field Shall be used as 
described by the following steps:
1)
The Source Port sends a Source_Capabilities Message to the Sink Port setting the Specification 
Revision field to the highest Revision of the Power Delivery Specification the Source Port supports.
2)
The Sink Port responds with a Request Message setting the Specification Revision field to the highest 
Revision of the Power Delivery Specification the Sink Port supports that is equal to or lower than the 
Specification Revision received from the Source Port.
3)
The Source and Sink Ports Shall use the Specification Revision in the Request Message from the Sink in 
step 2 in all subsequent communications until a Detach, Hard Reset, or Error Recovery happens.
Prior to entering the First Explicit Contract, the VCONN Source Shall use the following steps to establish a 
Specification Revision level:
1)
The VCONN Source sends a Discover Identity REQ to the Cable Plug (SOP’) setting the Specification 
Revision field in the Message to the highest Revision of the Power Delivery Specification the VCONN 
Source supports. After a VCONN Swap the required Soft_Reset / Accept Message exchange is used for the 
same purpose (see Section 6.3.13, "Soft Reset Message").
