Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 335
7.2
  Sink Requirements
7.2.1
  Behavioral Aspects
A PDUSB Sink exhibits the following behaviors:

Shall Not draw more than [USB Type-C 2.4] USB Type-C Current from VBUS while in a Default Contract 
or Implicit Contract.

Shall follow the requirements as specified in Section 7.1.5, "Response to Hard Resets" when Hard Reset 
Signaling is received.

Shall control VBUS in-rush current when increasing current consumption according to [USB 2.0] or 
[USB 3.2] as appropriate.
7.2.2
  Sink Bulk Capacitance 
The Sink bulk capacitance consists of C3 and C4 as shown in Figure 7.21, "Placement of Sink Bulk Capacitance". The 
Ohmic Interconnect might consist of PCB traces for power distribution or power switching devices. The Ohmic 
Interconnect is expected to be part of an input Over Voltage Protection (Sink OVP) circuit implemented by the Sink 
as described in Section 7.2.9.2, "Input Over Voltage Protection" to protect against excessive VBUS input voltage. A 
Sink Shall implement OVP. The Sink Shall Not rely on the Source output voltage limit for its input OVP. The 
capacitance might be a single capacitor, a capacitor bank or distributed capacitance. An upper bound of 
cSnkBulkPd Shall Not be exceeded so that the transient charging, or discharging, of the total bulk capacitance on 
VBUS can be accounted for during voltage transitions.
The Sink bulk capacitance that is within the cSnkBulk max or cSnkBulkPd max limits is allowed to change to 
support a newly Negotiated power level. The capacitance can be changed when the Sink enters Sink Standby or 
during a voltage transition or when the Sink begins to operate at the new power level. Changing the Sink bulk 
capacitance Shall Not cause a transient current on VBUS that violates the present Contract. During a Power Role 
Swap the Default Sink Shall transition to Swap Standby before operating as the New Source. Any change in bulk 
capacitance required to complete the Power Role Swap Shall occur during Swap Standby.
Figure 7.21 Placement of Sink Bulk Capacitance
7.2.3
  Sink Standby
The Sink Shall transition to Sink Standby before a positive voltage transition of VBUS. During Sink Standby the Sink 
Shall reduce the current drawn to iSnkStdby. This allows the Source to manage the voltage transition as well as 
supply sufficient operating current to the Sink to maintain PD operation during the transition. The Sink Shall 
complete this transition to Sink Standby within tSnkStdby after evaluating the Accept Message from the Source. The 
transition when returning to Sink operation from Sink Standby Shall be completed within tSnkNewPower. The 
iSnkStdby requirement Shall only apply if the Sink current draw is higher than this level.
See Section 7.3, "Transitions" for details.
GND
SHIELD
VBUS
...
Data
Lines
C3
GND
SHIELD
VBUS
...
Data
Lines
SINK
CABLE
C4
Load
Sink Bulk Capacitance
Ohmic  
Interconnect
OVP
