Page 48
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Protocol Layer
The entity that forms the Messages used to communicate information between Port Partners.
Provider
A PD Port (typically a USB Host, Hub, or Charger DFP) that can source power over the power 
conductor (e.g., VBUS). This corresponds to a USB Type-C Port with Rp asserted on its CC wire.
Provider/Consumer
A Provider with the additional capability to act as a Consumer. This corresponds to a Dual-Role 
Power Port with Rp asserted on its CC wire.
PS1
PS2
PS3
Classification of electrical power as defined in [IEC 62368-1].
PSD
Sink which draws power but has no other USB or Alternate Mode communication function e.g., a 
power bank.
Ra
Prior to application of VCONN, a powered cable applies a pull-down resistor Ra on its VCONN pin.
Rd
Pull-down resistor on the USB Type-C CC wire used to indicate that the Port is a Sink (see [USB 
Type-C 2.4]).
RDO
See Request Data Object.
Re-attach
Attach of the Port Pair by a cable after a previous Detach.
Re-negotiate
See Re-negotiation.
Re-negotiated
See Re-negotiation.
Re-negotiation
A process wherein one of the Port Partners wants to alter the Negotiated Contract.
Request
Message used by a Sink Port to Negotiate a Contract; refers to either a Request/EPR_Request 
Message.
Request Data Object
Data Object used by a Sink Port to Negotiate a Contract as a part of a Request/EPR_Request 
Message.
Responder
The receiver of a Command request sent by an Initiator that replies with a Command response.
Revision
Major release of the USB Power Delivery specification. Each Revision will have variousVersions 
associated with it.
Revision 1.0
Deprecated major Revision of the USB Power Delivery Specification.
Revision 2.0
Superseded major Revision of the USB Power Delivery Specification as defined in [USBPD 2.0], 
with which this specification is compatible.
Revision 3.x
Current major Revisions of the USB Power Delivery Specification.
Rp
Pull-up resistor on the USB Type-C CC wire used to indicate that the Port is a Source (see [USB 
Type-C 2.4]).
Safe Operation
Sources must have the ability to tolerate vSafe5V applied by both Port Partners.
Shared Capacity Charger
As defined in [USB Type-C 2.4]. This maps to a Charger with multiple Managed Capability Ports.
Shared Capacity Group
As defined in [USB Type-C 2.4]. This maps to a group with Managed Capability Ports.
SID
See Standard ID.
Signaling
A Preamble followed by an ordered set of four K-codes used to indicate a particular line symbol 
e.g., Hard Reset as defined in Section 5.4, "Ordered Sets".
Signaling Scheme
Physical mechanism used to transmit bits. Only the BMC Signaling Scheme is defined in this 
specification. 
Note: The BFSK Signaling Scheme supported in Revision 1.0 of this specification has been 
Deprecated.
Single-Role Port
A Port that is only capable of operating either as a Source or Sink, but not both. E.g., the port is 
not a DRP.
Sink
The Port consuming power from VBUS; most commonly a USB Device.
Sink Capabilities
Capabilities wanted by a Sink.
Sink Directed Charge
A charging scheme whereby the Sink connects the Source to its Battery through safety and other 
circuitry. When the SPR PPS Current Limit feature is activated, the Source automatically controls 
its output current by adjusting its output voltage.
Table 1.4  Terms and Abbreviations (Continued)
Term
Description
