Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 275
6.12
  State behavior
6.12.1
  Introduction to state diagrams used in Chapter 6
The state diagrams defined in Section 6.12, "State behavior" are Normative and Shall define the operation of the 
Power Delivery Protocol Layer.
Note:
These state diagrams are not intended to replace a well written and robust design.
Figure 6.57, "Outline of States" shows an outline of the states defined in the following sections. At the top there is 
the name of the state. This is followed by "Actions on entry" a list of actions carried out on entering the state and 
in some states "Actions on exit" a list of actions carried out on exiting the state.
Figure 6.57 Outline of States
Transitions from one state to another are indicated by arrows with the conditions listed on the arrow. Where there 
are multiple conditions, these are connected using either a logical OR "|" or a logical AND "&." The inverse of a 
condition is shown with a "NOT" in front of the condition.
In some cases, there are transitions which can occur from any state to a particular state. These are indicated by an 
arrow which is unconnected to a state at one end, but with the other end (the point) connected to the final state.
In some state diagrams it is necessary to enter or exit from states in other diagrams. Figure 6.57, "Outline of States" 
indicates how such references are made. The reference is indicated with a hatched box. The box contains the name 
of the referenced state.
Figure 6.58 References to states
Timers are included in many of the states. Timers are initialized (set to their starting condition) and run (timer is 
counting) in the state it is referenced. As soon as the state is exited then the timer is no longer active. Timeouts of 
the timers are listed as conditions on state transitions.
Conditions listed on state transitions will come from one of three sources:
<Name of State>
Actions on entry:
“List of actions to carry out on entering the 
state”
Actions on exit:
“List of actions to carry out on exiting the 
state”
<Name of reference state> 
(<DFP | UFP>)
