Page 1032
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
D
 BMC Receiver Design Examples
The BMC signal is DC-coupled so that the voltage level is affected by the ground IR Drop. The DC offset of the BMC 
signal at Power Source and Power Sink are in the opposite directions. When the VBUS current is increased from 0A, 
the BMC signal waveform shifts downward at Power Sink and shifts upward at Power Source. This section 
introduces two sample BMC receiver circuit implementations, which are immune from DC offset and high current 
load step. They can be used in Power Source, Power Sink and inside cables. 
D.1
  Finite Difference Scheme
D.1.1
  Sample Circuitry
The sample Finite Difference BMC receiver shown in Figure D.1, "Circuit Block of BMC Finite Difference 
Receiver"consists of the Rx bandwidth limiting filter with the time constant tRxFilter, a sampler with the sampling 
step ΔtS, 50ns, a Finite Difference Calculator which calculates the voltage difference between the time interval of 
ΔtFD, 300ns, an edge detector controlled by two voltage thresholds, Vth, H and Vth, L and a logic block for bit 
recognition.
Figure D.1 Circuit Block of BMC Finite Difference Receiver
D.1.2
  Theory
This section describes the fundamental theory of Finite Difference Scheme to recover the received BMC signal with 
the input and output signal waveforms of the circuit blocks shown in Figure D.1, "Circuit Block of BMC Finite 
Difference Receiver". To illustrate the robustness of the implementation, the VBUS current load step rate is 
intentionally increased to 2A/µs at the Sink load. In Figure D.2, "BMC AC and DC noise from VBUS at Power Sink" (a), 
the red curve represents the VBUS current measured at the Power Sink when the current is increased at 9 µs from 
0A to 5A and the blue dash curve represents the VBUS current measured at the USB Type-C ®connector of the power 
Sink. In this example, the peak current overshoot with larger load step rate is increased to 518 mA which exceeds 
iOvershoot. Figure D.2, "BMC AC and DC noise from VBUS at Power Sink" (b) shows the total BMC noise at Power Sink, 
coupled from VBUS and D+/D- through the worst [USB Type-C 2.4] compliant cable, after the Rx bandwidth limiting 
filter with the time constant tRxFilter is applied. The noise can be decomposed into 3 components. The first is the 
DC offset, IVBUS(t)*RGND, while IVBUS is the VBUS current and RGND is the ground DC resistance of the cable. The 
offset is negative in Power Sink and positive at Power Source. The second noise component is the inductive VBUS 
noise, M*d IVBUS(t)/dt, while M is the mutual inductance between the VBUS and CC wires in the cable and d IVBUS(t)/
dt is the load step rate. The third component is [USB 2.0] Full Speed SE0 coupling noise which would normally 
occur randomly but was assumed to occur periodically in the simulation to account for the crosstalk in any phase 
between the BMC and [USB 2.0] signals. In Figure D.3, "Sample BMC Signals (a) without USB 2.0 SE0 Noise (b) with 
USB 2.0 SE0 Noise", the blue dash curve represents the BMC signal when there is no VBUS current, and the red solid 
curve represents the BMC signal affected by the VBUS coupling noise shown in Figure D.2, "BMC AC and DC noise from 
VBUS at Power Sink"(b). The green solid curve is the sample [USB 2.0] noise, after the Rx bandwidth limiting filter 
with the time constant tRxFilter is applied.
