Page 136
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
6.3.17
  Get_Source_Cap_Extended Message
The Get_Source_Cap_Extended Message is sent by a Port to request additional information about a Port's Source 
Capabilities. The Port Shall respond by returning a Source_Capabilities_Extended Message (see Section 6.5.1, 
"Source_Capabilities_Extended Message").
6.3.18
  Get_Status Message
The Get_Status Message is sent by a Port using SOP to request the Port Partner's present status. 
The Port Partner Shall respond by returning a Status Message (see Section 6.5.2, "Status Message"). A Port that 
receives an Alert Message (see Section 6.4.6, "Alert Message") indicates that the Source or Sink's Status has changed 
and Should be re-read using a Get_Status Message.
The Get_Status Message May also be sent to an Active Cable to get its present status using SOP’/SOP’’. 
The Active Cable Shall respond by returning a Status Message (see Section 6.5.2, "Status Message"). 
6.3.19
  FR_Swap Message
The FR_Swap Message Shall be sent by the New Source within tFRSwapInit after it has detected a Fast Role Swap 
signal (see Section 5.8.6.3, "Fast Role Swap Detection" and Section 6.6.17.3, "tFRSwapInit"). The Fast Role Swap AMS 
is necessary to apply Rp to the New Source and Rd to the New Sink and to re-synchronize the state machines. The 
tFRSwapInit time Shall be measured from the time the Fast Role Swap Request has been sent for tFRSwapRx (max) 
until the last bit of the EOP of the FR_Swap Message has been transmitted by the PHY Layer.
The recipient of the FR_Swap Message Shall respond by sending an Accept Message.
After a successful Fast Role Swap the Port Partners Shall reset their respective Protocol Layers (equivalent to a Soft 
Reset): resetting their MessageIDCounter, RetryCounter and Protocol Layer state machines before attempting to 
establish the First Explicit Contract. At this point the Source Shall also reset its CapsCounter. 
This ensures that only the Cable Plug responds with a GoodCRC Message to the Discover Identity Command.
Prior to the Fast Role Swap AMS, the New Source Shall have Rd asserted on the CC wire and the New Sink Shall have 
Rp asserted on the CC wire.
Note:
This is an incorrect assignment of Rp/Rd (since Rp follows the Source and Rd follows the Sink as defined 
in [USB Type-C 2.4]) that is corrected by the Fast Role Swap AMS.
During the Fast Role Swap AMS, the New Source Shall change its CC wire resistor from Rd to Rp and the New Sink 
Shall change its CC wire resistor from Rp to Rd. The DFP (Host), UFP (Device) Data Roles and VCONN Source Shall 
remain unchanged during the Fast Role Swap process.
The Initial Source Should avoid being the VCONN Source (by using the VCONN Swap process) whenever not actively 
communicating with the cable, since it is difficult for the Initial Source to maintain VCONN power during the Fast Role 
Swap process.
Note:
A Fast Role Swap is a "best effort" solution to a situation where a PDUSB Device has lost its external 
power. This process can occur at any time, even during an AMS in which case error handling such as Hard 
Reset or [USB Type-C 2.4] Error Recovery will be triggered.
Note:
During the Fast Role Swap process the Initial Sink does not disconnect even though VBUS drops below 
vSafe5V.
For more information regarding the Fast Role Swap process, refer to:

Section 7.1.13, "Fast Role Swap"

Section 7.2.10, "Fast Role Swap"

Section 8.3.3.19.5, "Policy Engine in Source to Sink Fast Role Swap State Diagram"

Section 8.3.3.19.6, "Policy Engine in Sink to Source Fast Role Swap State Diagram"
