Page 340
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
7.3.1
  Transitions caused by a Request Message
This section describes transitions that are caused by a Request Message.
7.3.1.1
  Changing the Source between Different (A)PDOs
In these transition descriptions the term (A)PDO is used to describe any Power Data Object, regardless of whether 
it is a PDO or an APDO in the Capabilities Message.
This section describes transitions in response to a Request Message:

From one (A)PDO to another (A)PDO 

From an Implicit Contract to an Explicit Contract

From [USB Type-C 2.4]operation to the First Explicit Contract
These transitions usually result in a voltage change but is not required.
The interaction of the Device Policy Manager, the Port Policy Engine and the Power Supply that Shall be followed 
when increasing the current is shown in Figure 7.23, "Transition Diagram for Increasing the Voltage and Current" 
and Figure 7.25, "Transition Diagram for Decreasing the Voltage and Increasing the Current".
The Source voltage as the transition starts Shall be any voltage within the Valid VBUS range of the previous Source 
PDO or APDO. The Source voltage after the transition is complete Shall be any voltage within the Valid VBUS range 
of the New Source PDO or APDO. The sequence that Shall be followed is described in Table 7.2, "Sequence Diagram 
for Increasing the Voltage and Current" and Table 7.4, "Sequence Description for Decreasing the Voltage and 
Increasing the Current". The timing parameters that Shall be followed are listed in Table 7.23, "Source Electrical 
Parameters", Table 7.24, "Sink Electrical Parameters", and Table 7.25, "Common Source/Sink Electrical Parameters".
Note:
In this figure, the Sink has previously sent a Request Message to the Source. 
The voltage is considered to increase if the change from VOLD to VNEW is greater than vSmallStep. The 
determination Shall be based on the nominal (A)PDO voltage before and after, unless either (A)PDO is Battery 
Supply or Variable Supply when the worst case of the following is assumed in making this determination.

Minimum voltage to voltage.

Minimum voltage to Maximum voltage.

Voltage to Maximum voltage.
The following sections begin with a description of the generic process followed by more specific examples of the 
most common transitions.
