Page 158
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
6.4.2.4
  USB Communications Capable
The USB Communications Capable flag Shall be set to one when the Sink has USB data lines and is capable of 
communicating using either [USB 2.0], [USB 3.2] or [USB4] protocols. The USB Communications Capable flag 
Shall be set to zero when the Sink does not have USB data lines or is otherwise incapable of communicating using 
either [USB 2.0], [USB 3.2] or [USB4] protocols. This is used by the Source to determine operation in certain cases 
such as USB suspend. If the USB Communications Capable flag has been set to zero by a Sink, then the Source needs 
to be aware that USB Suspend rules cannot be observed by the Sink.
6.4.2.5
  No USB Suspend
The No USB Suspend flag May be set by the Sink to indicate to the Source that this device is requesting to continue 
its Explicit Contract during USB Suspend. Sinks setting this flag typically have functionality that can use power for 
purposes other than USB Communication e.g., for charging a Battery.
The Source uses this flag to evaluate whether it Should re-issue the Source_Capabilities Message with the USB 
Suspend Supported flag cleared.
6.4.2.6
  Unchunked Extended Messages Supported
The Unchunked Extended Messages Supported bit Shall be set when the Port can send and receive Extended 
Messages with Data Size > MaxExtendedMsgLegacyLen bytes in a single, Unchunked Extended Message.
6.4.2.7
  EPR Mode Capable
The EPR Capable bit Shall indicate whether or not the Sink is capable of operating in EPR Mode. When the Sink's 
ability to operate in EPR Mode changes, it Shall send a new Request Message with the updated EPR Capable bit set 
in the RDO.
6.4.2.8
  Operating Current 
The Operating Current field in the Request Data Object Shall be set to the highest current the Sink will draw during 
the Explicit Contract. A new Request Message or EPR_Request Message, with an updated Operating Current value, 
Shall be issued whenever the Sink's power needs change. 
The Operating Current field in the SPR Programmable Request Data Object is used in addition by the Sink to 
request the Source for the Current Limit level it needs. When the request is accepted the Source's output current 
supplied into any load Shall be less than or equal to the Operating Current value. When the Sink attempts to 
consume more current, the Source Shall reduce the output voltage so as not to exceed the Operating Current 
value.
The Operating Current field in the AVS Request Data Object Shall be set to the highest current the Sink will draw 
during the Explicit Contract. 
Note:
A Source in AVS Mode, unlike the SPR Source in PPS Mode, does not support current limit; the Sink is 
responsible not to take more current than it requested. 
A new Request / EPR_Request Message, with an updated Operating Current value, Shall be issued whenever the 
Sink's power needs change.
The value in the Operating Current field Shall Not exceed the value in the Maximum Current field of the 
Source_Capabilities Message. For EPR AVS, the Operating Current field Shall Not exceed the PDP / Output voltage 
rounded down to the nearest 50 mA.
This field Shall apply to the Fixed Supply, Variable Supply, Programmable and AVS RDOs.
6.4.2.9
  Maximum Operating Current 
The Maximum Operating Current field has been functionally Deprecated. In order to maintain backward 
compatibility with Sources that may try to interpret the Maximum Operating Current field in the Request Message 
or EPR_Request Message, the field Shall be set equal to the value of the Operating Current field. To ensure 
backward compatibility, the Source Should Ignore this field.
