Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 153
Sinks with Accessory Support do not source VBUS (see [USB Type-C 2.4]). Sinks with Accessory Support are still 
considered Sources when sourcing VCONN to an Accessory even though VBUS is not applied; in this case they Shall 
Advertise vSafe5V with the Maximum Current field set to 0mA in the first Power Data Object. The main purpose of 
this is to enable the Sink with Accessory Support to get into the PE_SRC_Ready State to enter an Alternate Mode.
A Sink in SPR Mode Shall evaluate every Source_Capabilities Message it receives and Shall respond with a Request 
Message. If its power consumption exceeds the Source Capabilities it Shall Re-negotiate so as not to exceed the 
Source's most recently Advertised Capabilities.
A Sink, in SPR Mode, in an Explicit Contract with a PPS APDO, Shall periodically re-request the PPS APDO at least 
every tPPSRequest until either:

The Sink requests something other than PPS APDO.

There is a Power Role Swap.

There is a Hard Reset.

There is Error Recovery.
A Sink in EPR Mode that receives a Source_Capabilities Message in response to a Get_Source_Cap Message Shall 
Not respond with a Request Message. If a Sink in EPR Mode receives a Source_Capabilities Message, not in response 
to a Get_Source_Cap Message, the Sink Shall initiate a Hard Reset.
A Source that has accepted a Request Message with a Programmable RDO Shall issue Hard Reset Signaling if it has 
not received a Request Message with a Programmable RDO within tPPSTimeout. The Source Shall discontinue this 
behavior after:

Receiving a Request Message with a Fixed Supply, Variable Supply or Battery Supply RDO.

There is a Power Role Swap.

There is a Hard Reset.

There is Error Recovery.
6.4.1.6
  SPR Sink Capabilities Message
Sinks send a Sink_Capabilities Message (see Section 6.4.2, "Request Message") in response to a Get_Sink_Cap 
Message. See Section 6.5.15.3, "EPR_Sink_Capabilities Message" for more information about the Capabilities Message.
A USB Power Delivery capable Sink, upon detecting vSafe5V on VBUS and after a SinkWaitCapTimer timeout 
without seeing a Source_Capabilities Message, Shall send a Hard Reset. If the Attached Source is USB Power 
Delivery capable, it responds by sending Source_Capabilities Messages thus allowing power Negotiations to begin.
A Sink Port Shall report power levels it is able to operate at in a series of 32-bit Power Data Objects (see Section 
Table 6.7, "Power Data Object"). These are returned as part of a Sink_Capabilities Message in response to a 
Get_Sink_Cap Message (see Figure 6.13, "Example Capabilities Message with 2 Power Data Objects"). This is similar 
to that used for Source Port Capabilities with equivalent Power Data Objects for Fixed Supply, Variable Supply and 
Battery Supply as defined in this section. Power Data Objects are used to convey the Sink Port's operational power 
requirements including Dual-Role Power Ports presently operating as a Source.
Each Power Data Object Shall describe a specific Sink operational power level, such as a Battery Supply (e.g., 2.8-
4.1V) or a Fixed Supply (e.g., 15V). The Number of Data Objects field in the Message Header Shall define the 
number of Power Data Objects that follow the Message Header in a Data Message.
All Sinks Shall minimally offer one Power Data Object with a power level at which the Sink can operate. A Sink Shall 
Not offer multiple Power Data Objects of the same type (Fixed Supply, Variable Supply, Battery Supply) and the same 
voltage but Shall instead offer one Power Data Object with the highest available current for that Sink capability and 
voltage.
All Sinks Shall include one Power Data Object that reports vSafe5V even if they require additional power to operate 
fully. In the case where additional power is required for full operation the Higher Capability bit Shall be set.
