Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 129
6.3.1
  GoodCRC Message
The GoodCRC Message Shall be sent by the receiver to acknowledge that the previous Message was correctly 
received (i.e., had a GoodCRC Message). The GoodCRC Message Shall return the Message's MessageID so the sender 
can determine that the correct Message is being acknowledged. The first bit of the GoodCRC Message Shall be 
returned within tTransmit after receipt of the last bit of the previous Message.
BIST does not send the GoodCRC Message while in a Continuous BIST Mode (see Section 6.4.3, "BIST Message").
The retry mechanism is triggered when the Message sender fails to receive a GoodCRC Message before the 
CRCReceiveTimer expires. It is used by the Message sender to detect that the Message was not correctly received 
by the Message recipient due to noise or other disturbance on the Configuration Channel (CC). The retry mechanism 
Shall Not be used for any other purpose such as a means of gaining time for processing the required response to 
the received Message.
6.3.2
  GotoMin Message (Deprecated)
The GotoMin (Deprecated) Message has been Deprecated. The 0_0010 Message Type is no longer Valid and Shall 
be responded to by a Not_Supported Message.
6.3.3
  Accept Message
The Accept Message is a Valid response in the following cases:

It Shall be sent by the Source, in SPR Mode, to signal the Sink that the Source is willing to meet the 
Request Message.

It Shall be sent by the Source, in EPR Mode, to signal the Sink that the Source is willing to meet the 
EPR_Request Message.

It Shall be sent by the recipient of the PR_Swap Message to signal that it is willing to do a Power Role 
Swap and has begun the Power Role Swap AMS.

It Shall be sent by the recipient of the DR_Swap Message to signal that it is willing to do a Data Role Swap 
and has begun the Data Role Swap AMS.

It Shall be sent by the recipient of the VCONN_Swap Message to signal that it is willing to do a VCONN Swap 
and has begun the VCONN Swap AMS.

It Shall be sent by the recipient of the FR_Swap Message to indicate that it has begun the Fast Role Swap 
AMS.

It Shall be sent by the recipient of the Soft_Reset Message to indicate that it has completed its Soft Reset.

It Shall be sent by the recipient of the Enter_USB Message to indicate that it has begun the Enter USB 
AMS.

It Shall be sent by the recipient of the Data_Reset Message to indicate that it has begun the Data Reset 
AMS.
The Accept Message Shall be sent within tReceiverResponse of the receipt of the last bit of the Message (see Section 
6.6.2, "SenderResponseTimer").
6.3.4
  Reject Message
The Reject Message is a Valid response in the following cases:

It Shall be sent to signal the Sink, in SPR Mode, that the Source is unable to meet the Request Message. 
This May be due an Invalid request or because the Source can no longer provide what it previously 
Advertised.
