Page 188
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
6.4.4.3.3
  Discover Modes
The Discover Modes Command is used by an Initiator to determine the Modes a Responder supports for a given 
SVID. 
The SVID in the Discover Modes Command Shall be set to the SVID for which Modes are being requested by both 
the Initiator and the Responder for this Command. 
The Number of Data Objects field in the Message Header in the Discover Modes Command request Shall be set to 
1 since the Discover Modes Command request Shall Not contain any VDOs. 
The Discover Modes Command ACK sent back by the Responder Shall contain one or more Modes. The Discover 
Modes Command ACK Shall contain a Message Header with the Number of Data Objects field set to a value of 2 to 
7 (the actual value is the number of Alternate Mode objects plus one). If the ID is a VID, the structure and content 
of the VDO is left to the Vendor. If the ID is a SID, the structure and content of the VDO is defined by the relevant 
standard’s body. 
A Responder that does not support any Modes Shall return a NAK. 
The Number of Data Objects field in the Message Header in the Discover Modes Command NAK and BUSY 
responses Shall be set to 1 since they Shall Not contain any VDOs.
Figure 6.21, "Example Discover Modes response for a given SVID with 3 Modes" shows an example of a Discover 
Modes Command response from a Responder which supports three Modes for a given SVID.
Figure 6.21 Example Discover Modes response for a given SVID with 3 Modes
6.4.4.3.4
  Enter Mode Command
The Enter Mode Command is used by an Initiator (DFP) to command a Responder (UFP or Cable Plug) to enter a 
specified Alternate Mode of operation. Only a DFP Shall initiate the Enter Mode Process which it starts after it has 
successfully completed the Discovery Process.
The value in the Object Position field in the VDM Header Shall indicate to which Alternate Mode in the Discover 
Modes Command the VDO refers (see Figure 6.21, "Example Discover Modes response for a given SVID with 3 
Modes"). The value 1 always indicates the first Alternate Mode as it is the first object following the VDM Header. The 
value 2 refers to the next Alternate Mode and so forth.
The Number of Data Objects field in the Message Header in the Command request Shall be set to either 1 or 2 since 
the Enter Mode Command request Shall Not contain more than 1 VDO. When a VDO is included in an Enter Mode 
Command request the contents of the 32-bit VDO is defined by the Alternate Mode.
The Number of Data Objects field in the Command response Shall be set to 1 since an Enter Mode Command 
response (ACK, NAK) Shall Not contain any VDOs.
Before entering a Alternate Mode, by sending the Enter Mode Command request that requires the reconfiguring of 
any pins on entry to that Alternate Mode, the Initiator Shall ensure that those pins being reconfigured are placed 
into the USB Safe State. Before entering an Alternate Mode that requires the reconfiguring of any pins, the 
Responder Shall ensure that those pins being reconfigured are placed into either USB operation or the USB Safe 
State.
A device May support multiple Modes with one or more active at any point in time. Any interactions between them 
are the responsibility of the Standard or Vendor. Where there are multiple Active Modes at the same time Modal 
Operation Shall start on entry to the first Alternate Mode.
Header
No. of Data Objects = 4
VDM Header
Mode 1
Mode 2
Mode 3
