Page 312
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
7
 Power Supply
7.1
  Source Requirements
7.1.1
  Behavioral Aspects
A PDUSB Source exhibits the following behaviors:

Shall supply [USB Type-C 2.4] USB Type-C® current to VBUS while in a Default Contract or Implicit 
Contract.

Shall follow the requirements as specified in Section 7.1.5, "Response to Hard Resets" when Hard Reset 
Signaling is received.

Shall control VBUS voltage transitions as bound by undershoot, overshoot and transition time 
requirements.
7.1.2
  Source Bulk Capacitance
The Source bulk capacitance Shall Not be placed between the transceiver isolation impedance and the USB 
receptacle. The Source bulk capacitance consists of C1 and C2 as shown in Figure 7.1, "Placement of Source Bulk 
Capacitance". The Ohmic Interconnect might consist of PCB traces for power distribution or power switching 
devices. The Ohmic Interconnect might also be part of the circuit implemented by the Source to limit its VBUS Output 
Voltage Limit (OVL) as described in Section 7.1.7.5, "Output Voltage Limit". Though a Source Shall limit its output 
voltage, a Sink Shall implement Sink OVP as described in Section 7.2.9.2, "Input Over Voltage Protection" to protect 
against excessive VBUS input voltage. The capacitance might be a single capacitor, a capacitor bank or distributed 
capacitance. If the power supply is shared across multiple ports, the bulk capacitance is defined as 
cSrcBulkShared. If the power supply is dedicated to a single Port, the minimum bulk capacitance is defined as 
cSrcBulk.
The Source bulk capacitance is allowed to change for a newly Negotiated power level. The capacitance change Shall 
occur before the Source is ready to operate at the new power level. During a Power Role Swap, the Initial Source 
Shall transition to Swap Standby before operating as the New Sink. Any change in bulk capacitance required to 
complete the Power Role Swap Shall occur during Swap Standby.
Figure 7.1 Placement of Source Bulk Capacitance
7.1.3
   Types of Sources
Consistent with the Power Data Objects discussed in Section 6.4.1, "Capabilities Message", the power supply types 
that are available as Sources in a USB Power Delivery System are:

The Fixed Supply PDO exposes well-regulated fixed voltage power supplies. Sources Shall support at 
least one Fixed Supply capable of supplying vSafe5V. The output voltage of a Fixed Supply Shall remain 
C2
Ohmic  
Interconnect
GND
SHIELD
VBUS
...
Data
Lines
GND
SHIELD
VBUS
...
Data
Lines
SOURCE
CABLE
C1
Power
Supply
Source Bulk Capacitance
OVL
