Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 157
6.4.2.1
  Object Position
The value in the Object Position field Shall indicate which object in the Source_Capabilities Message or 
EPR_Source_Capabilities Message the RDO refers to. The value 0001b always indicates the 5V Fixed Supply PDO as 
it is the first object following the Source_Capabilities Message’s Message Header or EPR_Source_Capabilities 
Message’s Extended Message Header. The number 0010b refers to the next PDO and so forth.
The Object Position field values 0001b…0111b Shall only be used to refer to SPR (A)PDOs. SPR (A)PDOs May be 
requested by either a Request or an EPR_Request Message. Object positions 1000b…1011b Shall only be used to 
refer to EPR (A)PDOs. EPR (A)PDOs Shall only be requested by an EPR_Request Message. If the Object Position field 
in a Request Message contains a value greater than 0111b, the Source Shall send Hard Reset Signaling.
6.4.2.2
  GiveBack Flag (Deprecated)
The Giveback flag has been Deprecated and Shall be set to zero.
6.4.2.3
  Capability Mismatch
A Capabilities Mismatch occurs when the Source cannot satisfy the Sink's power requirements based on the Source 
Capabilities it has offered. In this case the Sink Shall make a Valid request from the offered Source Capabilities and 
Shall set the Capability Mismatch bit (see Section 8.2.5.2, "Power Capability Mismatch"). When a Capabilities 
Mismatch condition does not exist, the Sink Shall Not set the Capability Mismatch bit.
When a Sink returns a Request Data Object with the Capability Mismatch bit set in response to a Source Capabilities 
Message, it indicates that it wants more power than the Source is currently offering. This can be due to either a 
specific voltage that is not being offered or there is not sufficient current for the voltages that are being offered.
Sources whose Port Reported PDP is less than their Port Present PDP (see Section 6.4.11, "Source_Info Message") 
Shall respond to the Requests with the Capability Mismatch bit set as follows. The Source within 
tCapabilitiesMismatchResponse of the PS_RDY Message Shall send a new Source Capabilities Message that offers 
either:
1)
The set of Source Capabilities to minimally satisfy the Sink's requirements based on what it actually 
requires for full operation by evaluating the:
a)
Sink_Capabilities_Extended Message(if supported by the Sink) and/or
b)
Sink_Capabilities or EPR_Sink_Capabilities Message.
2)
The set of Source Capabilities the Source can supply at this time based on the Port Present PDP.
To prevent looping, Sources Should Not send a new Source Capabilities Message in response to subsequent Request 
Message with the Capability Mismatch flag set until its Port Present PDP changes.
Once a Guaranteed Capability Source that has responded to a Capability Mismatch, it Shall Not subsequently send 
out another Source Capabilities Message at a lower PDP unless the power required by the Sink (as indicated in its 
Sink Capabilities Message or Sink_Capabilities_Extended Message) has also been reduced. Sources wishing to 
manage their power May periodically check the Sink Capabilities Message or Sink_Capabilities_Extended Message 
to determine whether these have changed.
Note:
A Source Capabilities Message refers to a Source_Capabilities Message or an EPR_Source_Capabilities 
Message, and a Sink Capabilities Message refers to a Sink_Capabilities Message or EPR_Sink_Capabilities 
Message, Request refers to a Request Message or EPR_Request depending on operating mode.
In this context a Valid Request Message means the following:

The Object Position field Shall contain a reference to an object that was present in the last received 
Source Capabilities Message.

The Operating Current/Operating Power field Shall contain a value which is less than or equal to the 
maximum current/power offered by the selected (A)PDO the Source Capabilities Message.
