Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 539
Table 8.60, "Steps for a Successful Source Initiated Power Role Swap Sequence" below provides a detailed 
explanation of what happens at each labeled step in Figure 8.33, "Successful Power Role Swap Sequence Initiated by 
the Source" above.
Table 8.60  Steps for a Successful Source Initiated Power Role Swap Sequence
Step
Initial Source Port
Initially Sink Port
1
The Port has Port Power Role set to Source and the Rp 
pull up on its CC wire.
Policy Engine directs the Protocol Layer to send a 
PR_Swap Message.
The Port has Port Power Role set to Sink with the Rd pull 
down on its CC wire.
2
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
3
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the PR_Swap 
Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the PR_Swap Message and checks 
the CRC to verify the Message.
4
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the PR_Swap 
Message to the Protocol Layer.
5
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received PR_Swap 
Message information to the Policy Engine that 
consumes it.
6
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
7
PHY Layer receives the GoodCRC Message and checks 
the CRC to verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the GoodCRC 
Message.
8
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the 
GoodCRC Message to the Protocol Layer. 
9
Protocol Layer verifies and increments the 
MessageIDCounter and stops CRCReceiveTimer. 
Protocol Layer informs the Policy Engine that the 
PR_Swap Message was successfully sent. Policy Engine 
starts SenderResponseTimer.
10
Policy Engine evaluates the PR_Swap Message sent by 
the Source and decides that it is able and willing to do the 
Power Role Swap. It tells the Protocol Layer to form an 
Accept Message.
11
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
12
PHY Layer receives the Message and compares the CRC 
it calculated with the one sent to verify the Accept 
Message.
PHY Layer appends a CRC and sends the Accept 
Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
13
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received Accept 
Message information to the Policy Engine that 
consumes it.
14
The Policy Engine requests its power supply to stop 
supplying power and stops the SenderResponseTimer.
15
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
