Page 44
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
EPR Mode
A Power Delivery mode of operation where maximum allowable voltage is 48V. The Sink 
complies to the requirements of [IEC 62368-1] for operation with a PS3 Source. The Source 
complies to the requirements of [IEC 62368-1] for operation with a PS3 Sink. The cable complies 
with [IEC 62368-1]. Entry into the EPR Mode requires that an EPR Source is Attached to an EPR 
Sink with an EPR Cable. The EPR Source will only enter the EPR Mode when requested to do so 
by the Sink and it has determined it is Attached to an EPR Sink with an EPR Capable cable.
Only the EPR_Source_Capabilities and the EPR_Request Messages are allowed to Negotiate EPR 
Explicit Contracts. The SPR Mode Messages (Source_Capabilities and Request) are not allowed 
to be used while in EPR Mode.
EPR (A)PDO
Fixed Supply PDO that offers either 28V, 36V or 48V.
Adjustable Voltage Supply (AVS) APDO whose Maximum voltage is the highest Fixed Supply PDO 
voltage in the EPR_Source_Capabilities Message and no more than 240W.
EPR Sink
A Sink that supports both SPR Mode and EPR Mode.
EPR Sink Port
A Port exposed on an EPR Sink.
EPR Source
A Source that supports both SPR Mode and EPR Mode.
EPR Source Port
A Port exposed on an EPR Source.
Error Recovery
Port enters the ErrorRecovery State as defined in [USB Type-C 2.4].
Explicit Contract
An agreement reached between a Port Pair as a result of the Power Delivery Negotiation 
process. An Explicit Contract is established (or continued) when a Source sends an Accept 
Message in response to a Request Message sent by a Sink followed by a PS_RDY Message sent by 
the Source to indicate that the power supply is ready. This corresponds to the PE_SRC_Ready 
State for a Source Policy Engine and the PE_SNK_Ready State for a Source Policy Engine. The 
Explicit Contract can be altered through the Re-negotiation process. 
Extended Capabilities
An Extended Message containing Capabilities information.
Extended Control Message
An Extended Message containing control information only.
Extended Message
A Message containing Data Blocks. The Extended Message is defined by the Extended field in the 
Message Header being set to one and contains an Extended Message Header immediately 
following the Message Header.
Extended Message Header
Every Extended Message contains a 16-bit Extended Message Header immediately following the 
Message Header containing information about the Data Block and any Chunking being applied.
Extended Power Range
Extends the power range from a maximum of 100W (SPR) to a maximum of 240W (EPR). When 
operating in the EPR Mode, only EPR specific Messages (the EPR_Source_Capabilities Message 
and the EPR_Request Message) are used to Negotiate Explicit Contracts.
External Supply
Power supply external to the device. This could be powered from the wall or from any other 
power source.
Fast Role Swap
Process of exchanging the Source and Sink Power Roles between Port Partners rapidly due to the 
disconnection of an external power supply.
Fast Role Swap Request
An indication from an Initial Source to the Initial Sink that a Fast Role Swap is needed. The Fast 
Role Swap Request is indicated by driving the CC line to ground for a short period; it is not a 
Message or Signaling.
First Explicit Contract
The Explicit Contract that immediately follows an Attach, power on Hard Reset, Power Role Swap 
or Fast Role Swap event.
Fixed Battery
Fixed Batteries
A Battery that is not easily removed or replaced by an end user e.g., requires a special tool to 
access or is soldered in.
Fixed Supply
A well-regulated fixed voltage power supply. This is exposed by the Fixed Supply PDO (see 
Section 6.4.1.2.1, "Fixed Supply Power Data Object")
Frame
Generic term referring to an atomic communication transmitted by PD such as a Packet, Test 
Frame or Signaling.
FRS
See Fast Role Swap.
Table 1.4  Terms and Abbreviations (Continued)
Term
Description
