Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 737
Table 8.125, "Steps for a VCONN Source requesting a security exchange with a Cable Plug Sequence" below provides a 
detailed explanation of what happens at each labeled step in Figure 8.98, "VCONN Source requests security exchange 
with Cable Plug" above.
Table 8.125  Steps for a VCONN Source requesting a security exchange with a Cable Plug Sequence
Step
VCONN Source
Cable Plug
1
Policy Engine directs the Protocol Layer to send a 
Security_Request Message using a Payload supplied by 
the DPM.
2
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
3
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the 
Security_Request Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the Security_Request Message and 
checks the CRC to verify the Message.
4
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the 
Security_Request Message to the Protocol Layer.
5
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received 
Security_Request Message information to the Policy 
Engine that consumes it.
6
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
7
PHY Layer receives the GoodCRC Message and checks 
the CRC to verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the GoodCRC 
Message.
8
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the 
GoodCRC Message to the Protocol Layer. 
9
Protocol Layer verifies and increments the 
MessageIDCounter and stops CRCReceiveTimer. 
Protocol Layer informs the Policy Engine that the 
Security_Request Message was successfully sent. 
10
Policy Engine requests the DPM for the response to the 
security request which is provided. 
The Policy Engine tells the Protocol Layer to form a 
Security_Response Message.
11
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
12
PHY Layer receives the Message and compares the CRC 
it calculated with the one sent to verify the 
Security_Response Message.
PHY Layer appends a CRC and sends the 
Security_Response Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
13
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received 
Security_Response Message information to the Policy 
Engine that consumes it.
14
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
15
PHY Layer appends a CRC and sends the GoodCRC 
Message.
PHY Layer receives GoodCRC Message and compares 
the CRC it calculated with the one sent to verify the 
Message.
