Page 1036
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
D.2
  Subtraction Scheme
D.2.1
  Sample Circuitry
The sample Subtraction BMC receiver shown in Figure D.8, "Circuit Block of BMC Subtraction Receiver" consists of 
the two Low Pass Filters (LPF1 and LPF2), a Subtractor, an Edge Detector and a logic block for bit recognition. The 
time constant of the first and second LPF are 200ns and 300ns, respectively. The Subtractor subtracts the LPF1 
output from the LPF2 output. The Edge Detector controlled by two voltage thresholds, Vth, H and Vth, L to recover 
the data.
Figure D.8 Circuit Block of BMC Subtraction Receiver
D.2.2
  Output of Each Circuit Block
Figure D.9, "(a) Output of LPF1 and LPF2 (b) Subtraction of LPF1 and LPF2 Output" (a) shows the output of LPF1 as 
the red solid line and LPF2 as the blue dash line as well as the [USB 2.0] noise in green solid line. Figure D.9, "(a) 
Output of LPF1 and LPF2 (b) Subtraction of LPF1 and LPF2 Output" (b) shows the voltage difference between the 
two output filters, Vdiff = Vcc_afterLPF1 - Vcc_afterLPF2. The Vdiff waveform looks very similar to the Finite 
Difference output waveform shown in Figure D.6, "Output of Finite Difference in dash line and Edge Detector in solid 
line" so that the data recovery method through the edge detector is the same as described in Section D.1.3, "Data 
Recovery".
Figure D.9 (a) Output of LPF1 and LPF2 (b) Subtraction of LPF1 and LPF2 Output
D.2.3
  Subtractor Output at Power Source and Power Sink
The following figures shows the example when the VBUS current increases from 0A to 5A and then decreases to 0A 
with high load step rate. The output of the LPF1 and the Subtractor at Power Source and Power Sink are shown in 
Figure D.10, "Output of the BMC LPF1 in blue dash curve and the Subtractor in red solid curve (a) at Power Source (b) 
at Power Sink" (a) and (b), respectively. Although the BMC signals at Power Source and Power Sink shift toward the 
opposite direction, the Subtractor outputs at Power Source and Power Sink are almost identical disregard of the 
opposite direction of the DC offset. 
