Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 419
The Device Policy Manager Shall communicate over USB with the System Policy Manager according to the 
requirements detailed in [UCSI]. Whenever requested the Device Policy Manager Shall implement a Local Policy 
according to that requested by the System Policy Manager. For example, the System Policy Manager might request 
that a Battery powered Device temporarily stops charging so that there is sufficient power for an HDD to spin up.
Note:
Due to timing constraints, a PD Capable device Shall be able to respond autonomously to all time-critical 
PD related requests.
8.2.3
  Control of Source/Sink
The Device Policy Manager for a Provider Shall manage the power supply for each PD Source Port and Shall know 
at any given time what the Negotiated power is. It Shall request transitions of the supply and inform the Policy 
Engine whenever a transition completes.
The Device Policy Manager for a Consumer Shall manage the Sink for each PD Sink Port and Shall know at any given 
time what the Negotiated power is.
The Device Policy Manager for a Dual-Role Power Device Shall manage the transition between Source/Sink Power 
Roles for each PD Dual-Role Power Port and Shall know at any given time what Power Role the Port is in.
8.2.4
  Cable Detection
8.2.4.1
  Device Policy Manager in a Provider
The Device Policy Manager in the Provider Shall control the USB-C® Port Control module and Shall be able to use the 
USB-C® Port Control module to determine the Attachment status.
Note:
It might be necessary for the Device Policy Manager to also initiate additional discovery using the Discov-
er Identity Command in order to determine the full Capabilities of the cabling (see Section 6.4.4.3.1, "Dis-
cover Identity").
8.2.4.2
  Device Policy Manager in a Consumer
The Device Policy Manager in a Consumer controls the USB-C® Port Control module and Shall be able to use the USB-
C® Port Control module to determine the Attachment status.
8.2.4.3
  Device Policy Manager in a Consumer/Provider
The Device Policy Manager in a Consumer/Provider inherits characteristics of Consumers and Providers and Shall 
control the USB-C® Port Control module in order to support the Dead Battery back-powering case to determine the 
following for a given Port:

Attachment of a USB Power Delivery Provider/Consumer which supports Dead Battery back-powering.

Presence of VBUS.
8.2.4.4
  Device Policy Manager in a Provider/Consumer
The Device Policy Manager in a Provider/Consumer inherits characteristics of Consumers and Providers and May 
control the USB-C® Port Control module in order to support the Dead Battery back-powering case to determine the 
following for a given Port:

Presence of VBUS.
