Page 70
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
themselves, independently of USB power rules, but are more limited in terms of the options available for managing 
power.
2.6.1.2
  Device Policy Manager
The Device Policy Manager provides mechanisms to monitor and control the USB Power Delivery system within a 
particular Consumer or Provider. The Device Policy Manager enables Local Policy to be enforced across the system 
by communication with the System Policy Manager. Local Policy is enacted on a per Port basis by the Device Policy 
Manager's control of the Source Ports/Sink Ports and by communication with the Policy Engine and USB-C® Port 
Control for that Port. The Device Policy Manager is responsible for the sharing algorithm used in Shared Capacity 
Chargers (see [USB Type-C 2.4])
2.6.1.3
  Policy Engine
Providers and Consumers are free to implement their own Local Policy on their directly connected Source Ports or 
Sink Ports. These will be supported by Negotiation and status mechanisms implemented by the Policy Engine for 
that Port. The Policy Engine interacts directly with the Device Policy Manager to determine the present Local Policy 
to be enforced. The Device Policy Manager will also inform the Policy Engine whenever there is a change in Local 
Policy (e.g., Capabilities change).
2.6.2
  Message Formation and Transmission
2.6.2.1
  Protocol Layer
The Protocol Layer forms the Messages used to communicate information between a Port Pair. It is responsible for 
forming Capabilities Messages, requests and acknowledgments. Additionally, it forms Messages used to swap roles 
and maintain presence. It receives inputs from the Policy Engine indicating which Messages to send and indicates 
the responses back to the Policy Engine.
The basic protocol uses a push model where the Provider pushes its Capabilities to the Consumer that in turn 
responds with a request based on the offering. However, the Consumer can asynchronously request the Provider's 
present Capabilities and can select another voltage/current.
Extended Messages of up to a Data Size of MaxExtendedMsgLen can be sent and received provided the Protocol 
Layer determines that both Port Partners support this capability. When one of both Port Partners do not support 
Extended Messages of Data Size greater than MaxExtendedMsgLegacyLen then the Protocol Layer supports a 
Chunking mechanism to break larger Messages into smaller Chunks of size MaxExtendedMsgChunkLen. All Ports 
that support Extended Messages longer than MaxExtendedMsgLegacyLen are required to support Chunking.
2.6.2.2
  PHY Layer
The PHY Layer is responsible for sending and receiving Messages across the USB Type-C CC wire and for managing 
data. PD is a Multi-Drop system, sharing CC between the Port Partners and the Cable Plug(s) that implements 
Collision Avoidance and recovery mechanisms. The PHY Layer detects errors in the Messages using a CRC.
2.6.3
  Collision Avoidance
2.6.3.1
  Policy Engine
The Policy Engine in a Source will indicate to the Protocol Layer the start and end of each Atomic Message Sequence 
(AMS) that the Source initiates. The Policy Engine in a Sink will indicate to the Protocol Layer the start of each AMS 
the Sink initiates. This enables co-ordination of AMS initiation between the Port Partners.
2.6.3.2
  Protocol Layer
The Protocol Layer in the Source will request the PHY to set the Rp value to SinkTxOK when it is not actively sending 
Messages. This indicates to the Sink that it can initiate an AMS by sending the first Message in the sequence. The 
Protocol Layer in the Source will request the PHY Layer to set the Rp value to SinkTxNG to indicate that the Sink 
cannot initiate an AMS since the Source is about to initiate an AMS.
