Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 37
1.4
  Conventions
1.4.1
  Precedence
If there is a conflict between text, figures, and tables, the precedence Shall be tables, figures, and then text.
In there is a conflict between a generic statement and a more specific statement, the more specific statement Shall 
apply.
1.4.2
  Keywords
The following keywords differentiate between the levels of requirements and options.
Table 1.2  Keywords
Keyword
Definition
Conditional Normative
Conditional Normative is a keyword used to indicate a feature that is mandatory 
when another related feature has been implemented. Designers are mandated to 
implement all such requirements, when the dependent features have been 
implemented, to ensure interoperability with other compliant devices.
Deprecated
Deprecated is a keyword used to indicate a feature, supported in previous 
releases of the specification, which is no longer supported.
Discard
See Discarded.
Discarded
Discard, Discards and Discarded are equivalent keywords indicating that a 
Packet when received Shall be thrown away by the PHY Layer and not passed to 
the Protocol Layer for processing. No GoodCRC Message Shall be sent in response 
to the Packet.
Discards
See Discarded.
Ignore
See Ignored.
Ignored
Ignore, Ignores and Ignored are equivalent keywords indicating Messages or 
Message fields which, when received, Shall result in no special action by the 
receiver. An Ignored Message Shall only result in returning a GoodCRC Message 
to acknowledge Message receipt. A Message with an Ignored field Shall be 
processed normally except for any actions relating to the Ignored field.
Ignores
See Ignored.
Informative
Informative is a keyword indicating text with no specific requirements, 
provided only to improve understanding.
Invalid
Invalid is a keyword when used in relation to a Packet indicates that the Packet’s 
usage or fields fall outside of the defined specification usage. When Invalid is 
used in relation to an Explicit Contract it indicates that a previously established 
Explicit Contract which can no longer be maintained by the Source. When Invalid 
is used in relation to individual K-codes or K-code sequences indicates that the 
received Signaling falls outside of the defined specification.
May
May is a keyword that indicates a choice with no implied preference.
May Not
May Not is a keyword that is the inverse of May. Indicates a choice to not 
implement a given feature with no implied preference.
N/A
N/A is a keyword that indicates that a field or value is not applicable and has no 
defined value and Shall Not be checked or used by the recipient.
Normative
See Shall.
Optional
Optional, Optionally and Optional Normative are equivalent keywords that 
describe features not mandated by this specification. However, if an Optional 
feature is implemented, the feature Shall be implemented as defined by this 
specification.
Optional Normative
See Optional.
Optionally
See Optional.
