Page 268
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
6.8
  Reset
Resets are a necessary response to protocol or other error conditions. USB Power Delivery defines four different 
types of reset:

Soft Reset, which resets protocol.

Data Reset which resets the USB Communications.

Hard Reset which resets both the power supplies and protocol

Cable Reset which resets the cable.
6.8.1
  Soft Reset and Protocol Error
A Soft_Reset Message is used to cause a Soft Reset of protocol communication when this has broken down in some 
way. It Shall Not have any impact on power supply operation but is used to correct a Protocol Error occurring 
during an Atomic Message Sequence (AMS). The Soft Reset May be triggered by either Port Partner in response to 
the Protocol Error.
Protocol Errors are any unexpected Message during an AMS. If the first Message in an AMS has been passed to the 
Protocol Layer by the Policy Engine but has not yet been sent (i.e., a GoodCRC Message acknowledging the Message 
has not been received) when the Protocol Error occurs, the Policy Engine Shall Not issue a Soft Reset but Shall 
return to the PE_SNK_Ready or PE_SRC_Ready state and then process the incoming Message. If the incoming 
Message is an Unexpected Message received in the PE_SNK_Ready or PE_SRC_Ready state, the Policy Engine Shall 
issue a Soft Reset. If the Protocol Error occurs during an AMS this Shall lead to a Soft Reset in order to re-synchronize 
the Policy Engine state machines (see Section 8.3.3.4, "SOP Soft Reset and Protocol Error State Diagrams") except 
when the voltage is transition when a Protocol Error Shall lead to a Hard Reset (see Section 6.6.11.4, 
"tProtErrHardReset" and Section 8.3.3.2, "Policy Engine Source Port State Diagram"). Details of AMS's can be found 
in Section 8.3.2.1.3, "Atomic Message Sequences".
An Unrecognized Message or Unsupported Message received in the PE_SNK_Ready or PE_SRC_Ready states, Shall 
Not cause a Soft_Reset Message to be generated but instead a Not_Supported Message Shall be generated.
A Soft_Reset Message Shall be sent regardless of the Rp value either SinkTxOK or SinkTxNG if it is the correct 
response in that state.
Note:
This means that a Soft_Reset Message can be sent during an AMS regardless of the Rp value either 
SinkTxOK or SinkTxNG when responding to a Protocol Error.
