Page 142
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10

If the USB Suspend Supported flag is cleared, then the Sink Shall Not apply the [USB 2.0], [USB 3.2] or 
[USB4] rules for suspend and May continue to draw the Negotiated power. 
Note:
When USB is suspended, the USB device state is also suspended.
Sinks May indicate to the Source that they would prefer to have the USB Suspend Supported flag cleared by setting 
the No USB Suspend flag in a Request Message (see Section 6.4.2.5, "No USB Suspend").
6.4.1.2.1.3
  Unconstrained Power
The Unconstrained Power bit Shall be set when an external source of power is available that is sufficient to 
adequately power the system while charging external devices, or when the device's primary function is to charge 
external devices.
To set the Unconstrained Power bit because of an external source, the external source of power Should be either:

An AC Supply, e.g., a Charger, directly connected to the Sink.

Or, in the case of a PDUSB Hub:

A PD Source with its Unconstrained Power bit set.

Multiple PD Sources all with their Unconstrained Power bits set.
6.4.1.2.1.4
  USB Communications Capable
The USB Communications Capable bit Shall only be set for Sources capable of communication over the USB data 
lines (e.g., D+/- or SS Tx/Rx).
6.4.1.2.1.5
  Dual-Role Data
The Dual-Role Data bit Shall be set when the Port is Dual-Role Data capable i.e., it supports the DR_Swap Message. 
This is a Static capability which Shall remain fixed for a given device regardless of the device's present Power Role 
or Data Role. If the Dual-Role Data bit is set to one in the Source_Capabilities Message the Dual-Role Data bit in 
the Sink_Capabilities Message Shall also be set to one. If the Dual-Role Data bit is set to zero in the 
Source_Capabilities Message the Dual-Role Data bit in the Sink_Capabilities Message Shall also be set to zero.
6.4.1.2.1.6
  Unchunked Extended Messages Supported
The Unchunked Extended Messages Supported bit Shall be set when the Port can send and receive Extended 
Messages with Data Size > MaxExtendedMsgLegacyLen bytes in a single, Unchunked Extended Message.
6.4.1.2.1.7
  EPR Mode Capable
The EPR Capable bit is a Static bit that Shall be set if the Source is designed to supply more than 100W and operate 
in EPR Mode.
When this bit is set, an EPR Source:

Operating in SPR Mode Shall only send an EPR_Source_Capabilities Message in response to an 
EPR_Get_Source_Cap Message

May only enter EPR Mode when the Cable and the Sink also report that they are EPR Capable.
6.4.1.2.1.8
  Peak Current
The USB Power Delivery Fixed Supply is only required to deliver the amount of current requested in the Operating 
Current field (IoC) of an RDO. In some usages however, for example computer systems, where there are short 
bursts of activity, it might be desirable to overload the Source for short periods.
For example, when a computer system tries to maintain average power consumption, the higher the peak current, 
the longer the low current (see Section 7.2.8, "Sink Peak Current Operation") period needed to maintain such 
average power. The Peak Current field allows a Source to Advertise this additional capability. This capability is 
intended for direct Port to Port connections only and Shall Not be offered to downstream Sinks via a Hub.
