Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 89
5.6.3
  Packet Detection Errors
CRC errors, or errors detected while decoding encoded symbols using the code table, Shall be treated the same 
way; the Message Shall be Discarded and a GoodCRC Message Shall Not be returned.
While the receiver is processing a Packet, if at any time the CC-line becomes Idle the receiver Shall stop processing 
the Packet and Discard it (no GoodCRC Message is returned). See Section 5.8.6.1, "Definition of Idle" for the 
definition of BMC Idle.
5.6.4
  Hard Reset
Hard Reset Signaling is an ordered set of bytes sent with the purpose to be recognized by the PHY Layer. The Hard 
Reset Signaling ordered set is defined as: three RST-1 K-codes followed by one RST-2 K-code (see Table 5.11, "Hard 
Reset Ordered Set").
A device Shall perform a Hard Reset when it receives Hard Reset Signaling. After receiving the Hard Reset 
Signaling, the device Shall reset as described in Section 6.8.3, "Hard Reset". If a Valid Hard Reset is not detected (see 
Table 5.3, "Validation of Ordered Sets") then the whole transmission Shall be Discarded.
A Cable Plug Shall perform a Hard Reset when it detects Hard Reset Signaling being sent between the Port Partners. 
After receiving the Hard Reset Signaling, the device Shall reset as described in Section 6.8.3, "Hard Reset".
The procedure for sending Hard Reset Signaling Shall be as follows:

If the PHY Layer is currently sending a Message, the Message Shall be interrupted by sending an EOP K-
code and the rest of the Message Discarded.

If CC is not Idle, wait for it to become Idle (see Section 5.8.6.1, "Definition of Idle").

Wait tInterFrameGap.

If CC is still Idle send the Preamble followed by the 4 K-codes for Hard Reset Signaling.

Disable the channel (i.e., stop sending and receiving), reset the PHY Layer and inform the Protocol Layer 
that the PHY Layer has been reset.

Re-enable the channel when requested by the Protocol Layer.
Figure 5.5, "Line format of Hard Reset" shows the line format of Hard Reset Signaling which is a Preamble followed 
by the Hard Reset Ordered Set.
Figure 5.5 Line format of Hard Reset
Table 5.11  Hard Reset Ordered Set
K-Code Number
K-Code in Code 
Table
1
RST-1
2
RST-1
3
RST-1
4
RST-2
Preamble(training for receiver)
RST-1
LEGEND:
Preamble provided by the Physical layer, 
not encoded with 4b5b
Provided by the Physical 
layer, encoded with 4b5b
RST-1
RST-1
RST-2
