Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 45
Guaranteed Capability Port
A Guaranteed Capability Port is always capable of delivering its Port Maximum PDP and 
indicates this by setting its Port Present PDP to be the same as its Port Maximum PDP except 
when limited by the cable’s Capabilities. This is a Static capability.
Hard Reset
This is initiated by Hard Reset Signaling from either Port Partner. It restores VBUS to USB Default 
Operation and resets the PD communications engine to its default State in both Port Partners as 
well as in any Attached Cable Plugs. It restores both Port Partners to their default Data Roles and 
returns the VCONN Source to the Source Port. A DRP Source Port operating as a Source will 
continue to operate as a Source.
Host
See USB Host.
Hot Swappable Battery
A Battery that is easily accessible for a user to remove or change for another Battery.
Hub
A USB Device that provides additional connections to the USB.
ID Header VDO
The VDO in a Discover Identity Command immediately following the VDM Header. The ID 
Header VDO contains information corresponding to the Power Delivery Product.
Idle
Condition on CC where there are no signal transitions within a given time window. See Section 
5.8.6.1, "Definition of Idle".
Implicit Contract
An agreement on power levels between a Port Pair which occurs, not because of the Power 
Delivery Negotiation process, but because of a Power Role Swap or Fast Role Swap. Implicit 
Contracts are transitory since the Port Pair is required to immediately Negotiate an Explicit 
Contract after the Power Role Swap. An Implicit Contract Shall be limited to USB Type-C current 
(see [USB Type-C 2.4]).
Initial Sink
Sink at the start of a Power Role Swap or Fast Role Swap which transitions to being the New 
Source.
Initial Source
Source at the start of a Power Role Swap or Fast Role Swap which transitions to being the New 
Sink.
Initiator
The initial sender of a Command request in the form of a query.
Invariant PDOs
A Source Port that offers Invariant PDOs will always Advertise the same PDOs except when 
limited by the cable.
IoC
The Negotiated current value as defined in [IEC 63002].
IR Drop
The voltage drop across the cable and connectors between the Source and the Sink as defined in 
[USB Type-C 2.4]. It is a function of the resistance of the ground and power wire in the cable plus 
the contact resistance in the connectors times the current flowing over the path.
K-code
Special symbols provided by the 4b5b coding scheme. K-codes are used to signal Hard Reset and 
Cable Reset and delineate Packet boundaries.
Local Policy
Every PD Capable device has its own Policy, called the Local Policy that is executed by its Policy 
Engine to control its power delivery behavior. The Local Policy at any given time might be the 
default policy, hard coded or modified by changes in operating parameters or one provided by 
the system USB Host or some combination of these. The Local Policy Optionally can be changed 
by a System Policy Manager.
LPS
Limited Power Supply as defined in [IEC 62368-1].
LSB
An abbreviation for Least Significant Bit.
Managed Capability Port
A Managed Capability Port can have its Port Present PDP set to a different value than its Port 
Maximum PDP. Its Port Present PDP value can be dynamic and change during normal 
operation.
Message
The Packet Payload consisting of a Message Header for Control Messages and a Message Header 
and data for Data Messages and Extended Messages as defined in Section 6.2, "Messages".
Message Header
Every Message starts with a 16-bit Message Header containing basic information about the 
Message and the PD Port’s Capabilities.
Messaging
Communication in the form of Messages as defined in Section 6, "Protocol Layer".
Modal Operation
Operation where there are one or more Active Modes. Modal Operation ends when there are no 
longer any Active Modes.
Mode
Mode is a general term used to describe a particular type of operation of a given device. 
Examples of modes are: Alternate Mode, EPR Mode, SPR Mode.
Table 1.4  Terms and Abbreviations (Continued)
Term
Description
