Page 242
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
6.5.13.12
  Sink Modes
The Sink Modes bit field Shall identify the charging Capabilities and the power sources that can be used by the Sink. 
When bit 0 is set, the Sink has the ability to use a PPS Source for fast charging.
The source of power a Sink can use: 

When bit 1 is set, the Sink has the ability to be sourced by VBUS. 

When bit 2 is set, the Sink has the ability to be sourced by an AC Supply.

When bit 3 is set, the Sink has the ability to be sourced by a Battery.

When bit 4 is set, the Sink has the ability to be sourced by a Battery with essentially infinite energy (e.g., 
a car battery).
Bits 1-4 May be set independently of one another. The combination indicates what sources of power the Sink can 
utilize. For example, some Sinks are only powered by a Battery (e.g., an automobile battery) rather than the more 
common AC Supply and some Sinks are only powered from VBUS or VCONN.
When bit 5 is set, the Sink has the ability to support AVS.
6.5.13.13
  SPR Sink Minimum PDP 
The SPR Sink Minimum PDP field Shall contain the minimum power Source PDP needed by the Sink, rounded up 
to the next integer, to operate at its lowest level of functionality without requiring power from its Battery if present. 
Battery charging may be an opportunistic feature, however this PDP Should be designed for basic functionality, not 
for charging. The SPR Sink Minimum PDP field Shall be less than or equal to the SPR Sink Operational PDP. The 
value is used by the Source to determine whether or not it has sufficient power to minimally support the Attached 
Sink. If the Sink is EPR Capable and is unable to operate at PDPs less than 100W, it Shall set this field to the 
minimum power to sustain PD communication.
If the Sink is self-powered, such that it doesn't need power from a Source, then it Shall set this field to zero.
The SPR Sink Minimum PDP is used to indicate to Shared Capacity Chargers the power that Should be delivered 
to the Sink to guarantee at least basic functionality for the end user.
Possible examples of SPR Sink Minimum PDP could be:

The minimum power a wireless Charger would require in order to detect, and deliver the minimum 
required amount of power to the attached device.

The power required to have basic functionality by a Batteryless Sink,

On a device with a Battery, it can power the minimum functionality of the device
6.5.13.14
  SPR Sink Operational PDP 
The SPR Sink Operational PDP field Shall contain the Source PDP that the manufacturer recommends for the 
normal functionality of the Sink, rounded up to the next integer. This corresponds to the PDP Rating of Sources that 
the Sink is designed to operate with (See Section 10.3.2, "Normative Sink Rules"). The SPR Sink Operational PDP 
field Shall be sufficient to operate all the Sink's functional modes normally AND charge the Sink's Battery if present. 
For Sinks with a Battery(s), the SPR Sink Operational PDP field Shall correspond to the PDP Rating of the Charger 
shipped with the Sink or the recommended Charger's PDP Rating. If the Sink is EPR Capable and is unable to operate 
at PDPs less than 100W, it Shall set the SPR Sink Minimum PDP field to the minimum power to sustain PD 
communication.
If the Sink is self-powered, such that it doesn't need power from a Source, then it Shall set this field to zero.
The SPR Sink Operational PDP is used to indicate to Shared Capacity Chargers that at this power level the user is 
not expected to receive any performance warning related to the power being supplied to the Sink.
