Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 317
PPS response to the load change Shall settle within the iPpsCLNew tolerance band by the time 
tPpsCVCLTransient. The Operating Mode Flag Shall be set when the SPR PPS load change response 
settles.

If the PPS Status OMF is set both before and after the load change, the SPR PPS responds by adjusting 
its output voltage to maintain the output current. The SPR PPS output current Shall stay within the 
iPpsCLTransient range. The SPR PPS response to the load change Shall settle within the iPpsCLNew 
tolerance band by the time tPpsCLSettle. The Operating Mode Flag Shall remain set during the load 
change response of the SPR PPS.

If the PPS Status OMF is set before the load change and cleared after the load change, the PPS responds 
to the load change by increasing its output voltage to vPpsNew and then maintaining it. The SPR PPS 
output voltage Shall stay within the vPpsCLCVTransient range. The SPR PPS response to the load 
change Shall settle within the vPpsNew tolerance band by the time tPpsCLCVTransient. The Operating 
Mode Flag Shall be cleared when the PPS load change response settles.
The SPR PPS Source Shall maintain its output voltage at the value requested in the PPS RDO for all static and 
dynamic load conditions except when in Current Limit operation. In response to any static or dynamic load 
condition during Current Limit operation that causes the SPR PPS output voltage to drop below vPpsShutdown the 
Source May send Hard Reset Signaling and Shall discharge VBUS to vSafe0V then resumes USB Default Operation at 
vSafe5V.
When the Sink attempts to draw more current than the Operating Current in the RDO, the Source Shall limit its 
output current. The current available from the Source during Current Limit mode Shall meet iPpsCLNew. The Sink 
May Not reduce its Operating Current request in the RDO when the PPS Status OMF is set.
Current limiting Shall be performed by the SPR PPS Source. Sinks that rely on PPS Current Limiting Shall meet the 
requirements of Section 7.2.9, "Robust Sink Operation". The Source Shall Not shutdown or otherwise disrupt the 
available output power while in Current Limit mode unless another protection mechanism as outlined in Section 
7.1.7, "Robust Source Operation" is engaged to protect the Source from damage.
An SPR PPS Source that is operating in Current Limit Shall Not change its set-point in a manner that exceeds 
iPpsCLLoadStepRate or iPpsCLLoadReleaseRate.
The relationship between SPR PPS programmable output voltage and SPR PPS programmable Current Limit Shall 
be as shown in Figure 7.6, "SPR PPS Programmable Voltage and Current Limit". The transition between the Constant 
Voltage mode and the Current Limit mode occurs between points a and b. The PPS Status OMF Shall be set or 
cleared within this region. In Current Limit mode when the load resistance changes, the output current of the 
Source Shall stay within iPpsCLNew. The proper behavior is represented by point c. 
