Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 149
To set the Unconstrained Power bit because of an external source, the external source of power Should be either:

An AC Supply, e.g., a Charger, directly connected to the Sink.

Or, in the case of a PDUSB Hub:

A PD Source with its Unconstrained Power bit set.

Multiple PD Sources all with their Unconstrained Power bits set.
6.4.1.3.1.4
  USB Communications Capable
The USB Communications Capable bit Shall only be set for Sinks capable of communication over the USB data 
lines (e.g., D+/- or SS Tx/Rx).
6.4.1.3.1.5
  Dual-Role Data
The Dual-Role Data bit Shall be set when the Port is Dual-Role Data capable i.e., it supports the DR_Swap Message. 
This is a Static capability which Shall remain fixed for a given device regardless of the device's present Power Role 
or Data Role. If the Dual-Role Data bit is set to one in the Source_Capabilities Message the Dual-Role Data bit in 
the Sink_Capabilities Message Shall also be set to one. If the Dual-Role Dataa bit is set to zero in the 
Source_Capabilities Message the Dual-Role Data bit in the Sink_Capabilities Message Shall also be set to zero.
6.4.1.3.1.6
  Fast Role Swap USB Type-C Current
The Fast Role Swap required USB Type-C Current field Shall indicate the current level the Sink will require after 
a Fast Role Swap has been performed.
The Initial Source Shall Not transmit a Fast Role Swap Request if the Fast Role Swap required USB Type-C Current 
field is set to zero.
Initially when the New Source applies vSafe5V it will have Rd asserted but Shall provide the USB Type-C current 
indicated by the New Sink in this field. If the New Source is not able to supply this level of current, it Shall Not 
perform a Fast Role Swap. When Rp is asserted by the New Source during the Fast Role Swap AMS (see Section 6.3.19, 
"FR_Swap Message"), the value of USB Type-C current indicated by Rp Shall be the same or greater than that 
indicated in the Fast Role Swap required USB Type-C Current field.
6.4.1.3.2
  Variable Supply (non-Battery) Power Data Object
Table 6.18, "Variable Supply (non-Battery) PDO – Sink" describes a Variable Supply (non-Battery) (10b) PDO used 
by a Sink. See Section 7.1.3, "Types of Sources" for the electrical requirements of the power supply.
The voltage fields Shall be set to the output voltage range that the Sink requires to operate. The Operational 
Current field Shall be set to the operational current that the Sink requires at the given voltage range. The absolute 
voltage, including any voltage variation, Shall Not fall below the Minimum Voltage field value and Shall Not 
exceed the Maximum Voltage field value. Required operating current is defined as the amount of current a given 
device needs to be functional. This value could be the maximum current the Sink will ever require or could be 
sufficient to operate the Sink in one of its modes of operation.
6.4.1.3.3
  Battery Supply Power Data Object 
Table 6.19, "Battery Supply PDO – Sink" describes a Battery Supply (01b) PDO used by a Sink. See Section 7.1.3, 
"Types of Sources" for the electrical requirements of the power supply.
Table 6.18  Variable Supply (non-Battery) PDO – Sink
Bit(s)
Field
Description
B31…30
Variable Supply
01b - Variable Supply (non-Battery) PDO
B29…20
Maximum Voltage
Maximum voltage in 50mV units 
B19…10
Minimum Voltage
Minimum voltage in 50mV units
B9…0
Operational Current
Operational current in 10mA units
