Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 73
2.7
  Extended Power Range (EPR) Operation
Extended Power Range is a Mode that provides for up to 240W which is considerably more power than the 100W 
the original PD specification (SPR Mode) offered. It is a Mode of operation that can be entered only when an Explicit 
Contract is in place and both the Ports and the Cable Plug(s) support EPR.
Entry into EPR Mode follows a strict process; this assures that the higher voltages, at power levels above 100W, are 
only transferred between known EPR Capable Sources and EPR Capable Sinks over EPR Capable cables. EPR Sources 
are capable of both Fixed Supply and Adjustable Voltage Supply (AVS) operation. Maintaining EPR Mode operation 
also requires maintaining a regular cadence of USB PD communications; loss of communications between the EPR 
Source and EPR Sink will cause a Hard Reset to be initiated resulting in a return to SPR operation.
The EPR Mode entry, operational and exit process is summarized by the following steps:
1)
Negotiate and enter into an Explicit Contract in the Standard Power Range. During this step, EPR Capable 
Sources and Sinks will declare their supported EPR Capabilities through PDO/APDO and RDO exchanges.
2)
An EPR Sink, having discovered an EPR Source, can request EPR Mode entry.
3)
The EPR Source, having already confirmed that the Attached cable assembly is EPR Capable during the 
First Explicit Contract Negotiation, will respond to the EPR Sink with an acknowledgment of the EPR 
Mode entry request.
4)
While in EPR Mode:
a)
The EPR Source sends EPR Capabilities (Fixed Supply PDOs and an AVS APDO) to the EPR Sink which 
requires the Sink to evaluate and respond as appropriate to adjust the Explicit Contract.
b)
The EPR Sink maintains a regular cadence of communications with the EPR Source to allow EPR 
Mode to continue.
5)
When either the EPR Source or EPR Sink no longer wants to remain in EPR Mode operation, a normal 
exit from EPR Mode will first require adjusting the Explicit Contract to a voltage of 20V or lower (SPR 
(A)PDO) followed by an explicit EPR Mode exit request.
a)
Source initiated: EPR Source sends an EPR_Source_Capabilities Message that only includes SPR 
voltages to force the EPR Sink to drop to 20V or below followed by the EPR Mode exit. Once EPR Mode 
is exited, a new SPR Contract is Negotiated to return to SPR Mode operation.
b)
Sink initiated; EPR Sink requests a drop to 20V or below followed by the EPR Mode exit. Once EPR 
Mode is exited, a new SPR Contract is Negotiated to return to SPR Mode operation.
Figure 2.6, "Example of a Normal EPR Mode Operational Flow" illustrates an example of a normal EPR Mode 
operational flow. In this example, at some time during the EPR Mode operation, the Source decides that it needs to 
exit EPR Mode, so it resends the EPR Capabilities to the Sink with only SPR (A)PDOs to cause the Sink to Negotiate 
an SPR Contract of 20V or lower and then the Source follows with an EPR Mode exit Message. Once EPR Mode is 
exited, a new SPR Contract is Negotiated to return to SPR Mode operation.
