Page 212
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
6.4.11
  Source_Info Message
The Source_Info Message Shall be sent in response to a Get_Source_Info Message. The Source_Info Message 
contains one Source Information Data Object (SIDO).
The Source_Info Message returns a SIDO whose format Shall be as shown in Figure 6.35, "Source_Info Message" and 
Table 6.51, "Source_Info Data Object (SIDO)". The Number of Data Objects field in the Source_Info Message Shall 
be set to 1.
The Port Maximum PDP, Port Present PDP, Port Reported PDP and the Port Type are used to identify Capabilities 
of a Source Port.
Figure 6.35 Source_Info Message
6.4.11.1
  Port Type Field
Port Type is a Static field that Shall be used to indicate whether the amount of power the Port can provide is fixed 
or can change dynamically.
For Ports that are part of a Shared Capacity Group, the Port Type field Shall be set to Managed Capability Port.
For Ports not part of a Shared Capacity Group, the Port Type field May be set to either Managed Capability Port or 
Guaranteed Capability Port.
6.4.11.2
  Port Maximum PDP Field
Port Maximum PDP is a Static field that Shall report the integer portion of the PDP Rating of the Port. A 
Guaranteed Capability Port (as indicated by the Port Type field being set to '1') Shall always be capable of 
supplying this amount of power. A Managed Capability Port (as indicated by the Port Type field being set to '0') 
Shall be able to offer this amount of power at some time.
The Port Maximum PDP Shall be the same as the larger of the SPR Source PDP Rating and the EPR Source PDP 
Rating in the Source_Capabilities_Extended Message.
6.4.11.3
  Port Present PDP Field
The Port Present PDP field Shall indicate the integer part of the amount of power the Port is presently capable of 
supplying including limitations due to Cable Capabilities or abnormal operating conditions (e.g., elevated 
temperature, low input voltage, etc.).
A Guaranteed Capability Port Shall always set its Port Present PDP to be the same as its Port Maximum PDP or 
the highest possible value when limited.
Table 6.51  Source_Info Data Object (SIDO)
Bit(s)
Field
Description
B31
Port Type

0 = Managed Capability Port

1 = Guaranteed Capability Port
B30…24
Reserved
Shall be set to zero
B23...16
Port Maximum PDP
Power the Port is designed to supply
B15…8
Port Present PDP
Power the Port is presently capable of supplying
B7…0
Port Reported PDP
Power the Port is actually advertising
Header
No. of Data Objects = 1
SIDO
