Page 36
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
1.2.1
  Scope
This specification is intended as an extension to the existing [USB 2.0], [USB 3.2], [USB Type-C 2.4] and [USBBC 
1.2] specifications. It addresses only the elements required to implement USB Power Delivery. It is targeted at 
power supply vendors, manufacturers of [USB 2.0], [USB 3.2], [USB Type-C 2.4] and [USBBC 1.2] platforms, 
devices and cable assemblies.
Normative information is provided to allow interoperability of components designed to this specification. 
Informative information, when provided, illustrates possible design implementation.
1.3
  Section Overview
This specification contains the following sections:
Table 1.1  Section Overview
Section
Description
Section 1, "Introduction"
Introduction, conventions used in the document, list of terms and abbreviations, 
references, and details of parameter usage.
Section 2, "Overview"
Overview of the document including a description of the operation of PD and the 
architecture.
Section 3, "USB Type-A and USB Type-
B Cable Assemblies and Connectors"
Mechanical and electrical characteristics of the cables and connectors used by PD. 
Section Deprecated. See [USBPD 2.0] for legacy PD connector specification.
Section 4, "Electrical Requirements"
Electrical requirements for Dead Battery operation and cable detection.
Section 5, "Physical Layer"
Details of the PD PHY Layer requirements
Section 6, "Protocol Layer"
Protocol Layer requirements including the Messages, timers, counters, and state 
operation.
Section 7, "Power Supply"
Power supply requirements for both Providers and Consumers.
Section 8, "Device Policy"
Device Policy Manager requirements.
Policy Engine Atomic Message Sequence (AMS) diagrams and state diagrams
Section 9, "States and Status 
Reporting"
PDUSB Device requirements including mapping of VBUS to USB states.
System Policy Manager requirements including descriptors, events, and requests.
Section 10, "Power Rules"
PDP Rating definitions for PD.
Section A, "CRC calculation"
Example CRC calculations.
Section B, "Message Sequence 
Examples (Deprecated)"
Scenarios illustrating Device Policy Manager operation. Deprecated
Section C, "VDM Command Examples"
Examples of Structured VDM usage.Section Deprecated.
Section D, "BMC Receiver Design 
Examples"
BMC Receiver Design Examples.
Section E, "FRS System Level Example"
FRS System Level Example.
