Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 689
Table 8.109, "Steps for a Source getting Sink's Battery Manufacturer Information Sequence" below provides a 
detailed explanation of what happens at each labeled step in Figure 8.82, "Source Gets Sink's Battery Manufacturer 
Information" above.
Table 8.109  Steps for a Source getting Sink's Battery Manufacturer Information Sequence
Step
Source Port
Sink Port
1
The Port has Port Power Role set to Source and the Rp 
pull up on its CC wire.
Policy Engine directs the Protocol Layer to send a 
Get_Manufacturer_Info Message with a request for 
Battery information for a given Battery.
The Port has Port Power Role set to Sink with the Rd pull 
down on its CC wire.
2
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
3
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the 
Get_Manufacturer_Info Message. Starts 
CRCReceiveTimer.
PHY Layer receives the Get_Manufacturer_Info 
Message and checks the CRC to verify the Message.
4
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the 
Get_Manufacturer_Info Message to the Protocol Layer.
5
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received 
Get_Manufacturer_Info Message information to the 
Policy Engine that consumes it.
6
Protocol Layer generates a GoodCRC Message and 
passes it PHY Layer.
7
PHY Layer receives the GoodCRC Message and checks 
the CRC to verify the Message.
PHY Layer appends CRC and sends the GoodCRC 
Message.
8
PHY Layer removes the CRC and forwards the 
GoodCRC Message to the Protocol Layer. 
9
Protocol Layer verifies and increments the 
MessageIDCounter and stops CRCReceiveTimer. 
Protocol Layer informs the Policy Engine that the 
Get_Manufacturer_Info Message was successfully sent. 
Policy Engine starts SenderResponseTimer.
10
Policy Engine requests the DPM for the Battery’s 
manufacturer information for a given Battery which is 
provided. 
The Policy Engine tells the Protocol Layer to form a 
Manufacturer_Info Message.
11
Protocol Layer creates the Message and passes to PHY 
Layer.
12
PHY Layer receives the Message and compares the CRC 
it calculated with the one sent to verify the 
Manufacturer_Info Message.
PHY Layer appends a CRC and sends the 
Manufacturer_Info Message. Starts CRCReceiveTimer.
13
Protocol Layer checks the MessageID in the incoming 
Message is different from the previously stored value 
and then stores a copy of the new value.
The Protocol Layer forwards the received 
Manufacturer_Info Message information to the Policy 
Engine that consumes it.
14
The Policy Engine stops the SenderResponseTimer.
