Page 324
Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
7.1.7.2
  Over Temperature Protection
Sources Shall implement Over Temperature Protection (OTP) to prevent damage from temperature that exceeds 
the thermal capability of the Source. The definition of thermal capability and the monitoring locations used to 
trigger the over temperature protection are left to the discretion of the Source implementation. 
In order to avoid reaching an OTP event, Sources May proactively reduce the available power being offered to the 
Sink, even though these offers might be lower than the Source would be expected to offer during normal thermal 
operating conditions. Prior to reducing power, the Source Should generate Alert Message indicating an Operating 
Condition Change and set the Temperature Status bit in the SOP Status Message to Warning (10b).
Sources Should attempt to send Hard Reset Signaling when OTP engages followed by an Alert Message indicating 
an OTP event once an Explicit Contract has been established. The OTP response May engage at either the Port or 
system level. Systems or ports that have engaged OTP Should attempt to resume USB Default Operation and May 
latch off to protect the Port or system.
The Source Shall Re-negotiate with the Sink after choosing to resume USB Default Operation. The decision of how 
to Re-negotiate after an over temperature event is left to the discretion of the Source implementation.
The Source Shall prevent continual system or Port cycling if over temperature protection continues to engage after 
initially resuming either USB Default Operation or Re-negotiation. Latching off the Port or system is an acceptable 
response to recurring over temperature.
During the OTP and subsequent system or Port shutdown, all affected Source ports operating with VBUS greater 
than vSafe5V Shall discharge VBUS to vSafe5V by the time tSafe5V and vSafe0V by the time tSafe0V. 
7.1.7.3
  vSafe5V Externally Applied to Ports Supplying vSafe5V
Safe operation mandates that Power Delivery Sources Shall be tolerant of vSafe5V being present on VBUS when 
simultaneously applying power to VBUS. Normal USB PD communication Shall be supported when this vSafe5V to 
vSafe5V connection exists.
7.1.7.4
  Detach
A USB Detach is detected electrically using CC detection on the USB Type-C connector. When the Source is Detached 
the Source Shall transition to vSafe0V by tSafe0V relative to when the Detach event occurred. During the transition 
to vSafe0V the VBUS voltage Shall be below vSafe5V max by tSafe5V relative to when the Detach event occurred 
and Shall Not exceed vSafe5V max after this time.
Sources operating in EPR Mode need to avoid creating large differential voltages at the connector. See Appendix H 
in the [USB Type-C 2.4] specification for background information. To achieve this, Sources operating in EPR Mode, 
upon detecting a disconnect, Shall stop sourcing current and minimize VBUS capacitance. There May continue to be 
current sourced from the Source bulk capacitance, but that Should also be minimized by disconnecting as much of 
the Source bulk capacitance as possible. For example, the Source can stop sourcing from the Power Supply and the 
C1 portion of the Source bulk capacitance in Figure 7.1, "Placement of Source Bulk Capacitance" by disabling the 
Ohmic Interconnect switch.
The Source Should detect the disconnect, stop sourcing current, and minimize the VBUS capacitance as quickly as 
practical. If this is done after the CC contacts disconnect and before the VBUS contacts disconnect there is less risk 
of large differential voltages at the connector.
Note:
A USB-PD transmission by the Source during a disconnect event will delay disconnect detection by the 
Source.
7.1.7.5
  Output Voltage Limit
The output voltage of Sources Shall account for vSrcNew, vSrcValid or vPpsNew, vPpsValid or vAvsNew, 
vAvsValid as determined by the Negotiated VBUS value. Sources Shall meet applicable safety and regulatory 
requirements.
