Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 247
6.5.16
  Vendor_Defined_Extended Message
The Vendor_Defined_Extended Message (VDEM) is provided to allow vendors to exchange information outside of 
that defined by this specification using the Extended Message format.
A Vendor_Defined_Extended Message Shall consist of at least one Vendor Data Object, the VDM Header, and May 
contain up to a maximum of 256 additional data bytes.
To ensure vendor uniqueness of Vendor_Defined_Extended Messages, all Vendor_Defined_Extended Messages 
Shall contain a Valid USB Standard or Vendor ID (SVID) allocated by USB-IF in the VDM Header.
A VDEM does not define any structure and Messages May be created in any manner that the vendor chooses.
Vendor_Defined_Extended Messages Shall Not be used for direct power Negotiation. They May however be used 
to alter Local Policy, affecting what is offered or consumed via the normal PD Messages. For example, a 
Vendor_Defined_Extended Message could be used to enable the Source to offer additional power via a 
Source_Capabilities Message.
Vendor_Defined_Extended Messages Shall Not be used where equivalent functionality is contained in the PD 
Specification e.g., authentication or firmware update.
The Message format Shall be as shown in Figure 6.56, "Vendor_Defined_Extended Message".
Figure 6.56 Vendor_Defined_Extended Message
The VDM Header Shall be the first 4-bytes in a Vendor Defined Extended Message. The VDM Header provides 
Command space to allow vendors to customize Messages for their own purposes.
The VDM Header in the VDEM Shall follow the Unstructured VDM Header format as defined in Section 6.4.4.1, 
"Unstructured VDM".
VDEMs Shall only be sent and received after an Explicit Contract has been established.
A VDEM AMS Shall Not interrupt any other PD AMS.
The VDEM does not define the contents of bits B14…0 in the VDM Header. Their definition and use are the sole 
responsibility of the vendor indicated by the SVID. The Port Partners and Cable Plugs Shall exit any states entered 
using a VDEM according to the rules defined in Section 6.4.4.3.4, "Enter Mode Command".
The following rules apply to the use of VDEM Messages:

VDEMs Shall Not be initiated or responded to under any other circumstances than the following:

VDEMs Shall only be used when an Explicit Contract is in place.

Prior to establishing an Explicit Contract VDEMs Shall Not be sent and Shall be Ignored if received.

Cable Plugs Shall Not initiate VDEMs.
Extended Header
Data Size = 4...260
VDM Header
VDEDB
(0...256-byte Data Block)
