Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 41
Battery Slot
A physical location where a Hot Swappable Battery can be installed. A Battery Slot might or 
might not have a Hot Swappable Battery present in a Battery Slot at any given time.
Battery Supply
A power supply that directly applies the output of a Battery to VBUS. This is exposed by the 
Battery Supply PDO (see Section 6.4.1.2.3, "Battery Supply Power Data Object").
BDO
See BIST Data Object.
BFSK
See Binary Frequency Shift Keying.
Bi-phase Mark Coding
Modification of Manchester coding where each zero has one transition and a one has two 
transitions (see [IEC 60958-1]).
Binary Frequency Shift 
Keying
A Signaling Scheme now Deprecated in this specification. BFSK used a pair of discrete 
frequencies to transmit binary (0s and 1s) information over VBUS. See [USBPD 2.0] for further 
details.
BIST
Built-In Self-Test - Power Delivery testing mechanism for the PHY Layer.
BIST Data Object
Data Object used by BIST Messages.
BIST Mode
A BIST receiver or transmitter test mode enabled by a BIST Message.
BIST Carrier Mode
A BIST Mode in which the PHY Layer sends out a BMC encoded continuous string of 
alternating "1"s and "0"s.
BIST Test Data Mode
A BIST Mode in which the PHY Layer sends out a GoodCRC Message and then enters a test mode 
where it sends no further Messages, except  GoodCRC Messages, in response to received 
Messages.
BIST Shared Capacity Test 
Mode
A BIST Mode applicable only to a Shared Capacity Group of Ports where the maximum Source 
Capabilities are always offered on every Port, regardless of the availability of shared power i.e., 
all shared power management is disabled.
BMC
See Bi-phase Mark Coding.
Cable Capabilities
Capabilities offered by a Cable Plug.
Cable Discovered
USB Power Delivery Ports that have exchanged a Message and a GoodCRC Message response 
with a Cable Plug or a VPD using the USB Power Delivery protocol so that both the Port and the 
Cable Plug know that each is PD Capable and which Revision they each support.
Cable Discovery
See Cable Discovered.
Cable Plug
Term used to describe a PD Capable element in a Multi-Drop system addressed by SOP’ Packets/
SOP’’ Packets. Logically the Cable Plug is associated with a USB Type-C plug at one end of the 
cable. In a practical implementation, the electronics might reside anywhere in the cable.
Cable Reset
This is initiated by Cable Reset Signaling from the DFP. It restores the Cable Plugs to their 
default, power up condition and resets the PD communications engine in the cable to its default 
state. It does not reset the Port Partners but does restore VCONN to its Attachment state.
Cable VDO
VDO returned by the Cable Plug containing Cable Capabilities.
Capabilities
Features supported by a product. These can include, for example, power levels supplied/
needed, cable type, Battery support or [USB4] support.
Capabilities Mismatch
Indication from the Sink that the Source’s Advertised Capabilities don’t match the Sink’s needs.
CC
See Configuration Channel.
Cert Stat VDO
The Cert Stat VDO contains the XID assigned by USB-IF to the product before certification in 
binary format.
Charge Through
A mechanism for a VCONN Powered USB Device (VPD) to pass power and CC communication from 
one Port to the other without any interference or re-regulation.
Charge Through Port
The USB Type-C receptacle on a USB Device that is designed to allow a Source to be connected 
through the USB Device to charge a system to which it is Attached. Most common use is to allow 
a single Port USB Host to support a USB Device while being charged.
Charger
Provider whose primary purpose is to supply power to a Consumer or Consumers in order to 
charge their Battery.
Chunk
A MaxExtendedMsgChunkLen (26 byte) or less portion of a Data Block. Data Blocks can be sent 
either as a single Message or as a series of Chunks.
Table 1.4  Terms and Abbreviations (Continued)
Term
Description
