Universal Serial Bus Power Delivery Specification, Revision 3.2, Version 1.1, 2024-10
Page 35

Compatible with existing spec-compliant USB cables.

Minimizes potential damage from non-compliant cables (e.g., ‘Y’ cables etc.).

Optimized for low-cost implementations.
This specification defines mechanisms to discover, enter and exit Alternate Modes defined either by a standard or 
by a particular vendor. These Alternate Modes can be supported either by the Port Partner or by a cable connecting 
the two Port Partners.
The specification defines mechanisms to discover the Capabilities of cables which can communicate using Power 
Delivery.
To facilitate optimum charging, the specification defines two mechanisms a USB Charger can Advertise for the 
device to use:
1)
A list of Fixed Supply voltages each with a maximum current. The device selects a voltage and current 
from the list. This is the traditional model used by devices that use internal electronics to manage the 
charging of their Battery including modifying the voltage and current actually supplied to the Battery. 
The side-effect of this model is that the charging circuitry generates heat that can be problematic for 
small form factor devices.
2)
A list of programmable voltage ranges, in SPR PPS Mode, each with a maximum current. The device re-
quests a voltage (in 20mV increments) that is within the Advertised range and a maximum current. The 
USB PPS Charger delivers the requested voltage until the maximum current is reached at which time 
the USB PPS Charger reduces its output voltage so as not to supply more than the requested maximum 
current. During the high current portion of the charge cycle, the USB PPS Charger can be directly con-
nected (through an appropriate safety device) to the Battery. This model is used by devices that want 
to minimize the thermal impact of their internal charging circuitry.
3)
A list of adjustable voltage ranges, in SPR AVS Mode or EPR AVS Mode, each with a maximum current. 
The device requests a voltage (in 100mV increments) that is within the Advertised range and a maxi-
mum current. The USB AVS Charger delivers the requested voltage.
1.2
  Purpose
The USB Power Delivery specification defines a power delivery system covering all elements of a USB system 
including USB Hosts, USB Devices, Hubs, Chargers and cable assemblies. This specification describes the 
architecture, protocols, power supply behavior, connectors and cabling necessary for managing power delivery 
over USB at up to 100W in SPR Mode and 240W in EPR Mode. This specification is intended to be fully compatible 
with and extend the existing USB infrastructure. It is intended that this specification will allow system OEMs, 
power supply and Peripheral developers adequate flexibility for product versatility and market differentiation 
without losing backwards compatibility.
USB Power Delivery is designed to operate independently of the existing USB bus defined mechanisms used to 
Negotiate power which are:

[USB 2.0], [USB 3.2] in band requests for high power interfaces.

[USBBC 1.2] mechanisms for supplying higher power (not mandated by this specification).

[USB Type-C 2.4] mechanisms for supplying higher power.
Initial operating conditions remain the USB Default Operation as defined in [USB 2.0], [USB 3.2], [USB Type-C 2.4] 
or [USBBC 1.2].

The DFP sources vSafe5V over VBUS.

The UFP consumes power from VBUS.
